5406,"XX/XX/XXXX, payment was disbursed to NAVIENT on XX/XX/XXXX, by our credit union. They submitted a paper check as an electronic payment. Despite having sent a copy of the statement, showing payment, they insist we now send them a triple payment for XX/XX/XXXX, XX/XX/XXXX, and XX/XX/XXXX. I would send the XX/XX/XXXX payment, but with the XX/XX/XXXX payment still unreesolved ( I think deliberately to set up penalties and fees ), I am reluctant to do so and am unsure of what to do. 

Furthermore, although we had some foresearances ( with XXXX, before we were commandeered by NAVIENT ) we owe almost as much as we started owing IN XX/XX/XXXX!!! 

Getting informationnfrom them is like pulling teeth. Now I would n't trust their word. 

HELP!"
1099,"Great Lakes student loan company is refusing to acknowledge my enrollment in a new school - XXXX University, XXXX program. After one month of emails to them and my school sending them my enrollment information, they refuse to acknowledge my enrollment -- thus causing me to have to pay back my loans and new school fees causing financial hardship."
9259,I am constantly getting calls about differ t amounts and what I need to pay or am required to pay depending on who I talk to.
898,"FedLoan granted me a deferment yet wont update the granted request through the credit bureau ( XXXX, XXXX or XXXX ). When companies view my report they are under the impression that I never paid which is causing a late payment report from 30-120 days late under a total of XXXX different accounts. this is a double standard as to what was granted to me. I have suffered from this Fedloan servicing admission of falsely reporting to companies for over 3years."
6645,The contract said that the loan would be eligible for deferment for up to 10 years after completion of school during residency training. Deferment did not mention that interest would have to be paid back during the time. This lead to me calling several times regarding this while penalties accrued. No options were offered or available for someone who was unable to pay the amount every month.
955,"I previously applied for an income base loan and was denied. Due to denial It has caused me the inability to pay and its XXXX for me and my family. Even at the time, i was paying tuition for my child who was attending XXXX XXXX XXXX. Its very expensive with that alone & the difficulties of paying her tuition and living was extremely difficult. The hardship is unreal and i just asked my loan company for help and was denied. It seems so unfair to ask fir help and be denied."
5520,"I entered into a payment plan with Navient. It was agreed upon that I would pay {$510.00} on the XXXX of every month. Yesterday, my credit monitoring service notified me that Navient is reporting that I am over 60 days late on payments with XXXX accounts. As a result, my credit score took a drastic drop. Not only have I not missed a payment, they have been paid on time and I have my bank statements to prove it. While on the phone with Navient today, the gentleman on the phone told me the purpose of the repayment program was to help me, but instead it is hurting me. What 's the point of making payments if will still be reported late?"
5249,"My monthly payment increased to $ XXXX/month and I was laid off from my job. After going back and forth with my private loan provider about lowering my interest rate, my application for a lowered interest rate was denied twice. Now I am being hit with late fees in addition to two months of unpaid payments. I do n't know what to do, and the company is not giving me ANY information on how to move forward in a way that works for me in my current situation. If my payments were lowered, I could continue paying on time as I have done every single month since graduation in 2009. Instead of helping their clients, private loan companies pigeonhole them and hold they accountable for insanely high payments even during unexpected hardships, such as losing a job. I 'm simply asking for a new or revised contract, in which the folks on the phone at Navient are unhelpful with their information and keep repeating the contract I 'm currently in. I should n't be a prisoner of my student loan debt. I am a responsible person who is trying my best to make payments every month, but when my $ XXXX/month payment gets double and I lose my job, I simply can not pay. I should n't have to explain to any decent person that I have other payments to make such as rent, food, utilities, health costs, other student debts, etc. etc. If I was living off the streets would it be a reasonable cause for my payments to be lowered?! Not everyone has a trust fund and not everyone can scrape their family members clean of their hard earned money. My voice is not being heard. It 's simply unacceptable that while I 'm in communication with the company about a revised contract I "" owe '' a late fee. I do n't know why this type of business is n't being called as what it is -- criminal activity. Forgive me for putting myself through school and borrowing money. I 'm truly at a loss."
6072,On XXXX out of my XXXX student loans with navient I made a lump sum payment to pay off the entire loan. I was able to settle of approximately {$5000.00} less than what I owed but paid in full. The amount that I paid was still more than the original loan taken out due to high interest rates. During the settlement navient stated that this would show paid in full on my credit report and not hurt my credit score. I have never missed a payment and all other accounts are in good standing. But this shows as a potentially negative item because is states paid in settlement and in the comments states paid in full for less than full balance. They added the less than full balance which is causing the negative item. Because of this I have been denied for a couple of things including XXXX who I am trying to consolidate my loans with.
7936,"I cosigned a private student loan for my grandson in XXXX for him to go to college. My grandson unfortunately dropped out and disappeared and I was stuck with the loan. Navient now services the loan, originally with XXXX XXXX and they have harassed me to a point where I have to take XXXX. I made my best efforts to pay until very recently I decided I could n't. Since XXXX I have applied for forebearances and/or made monthly payments. I live on fixed income, social security and a very small pension monthly. I can barely meet my necessities and have a documented budget showing my money flow. I originally was paying $ XXXX until XXXX XXXX they increased my payments to {$240.00}. I have paid this diligently until XXXX when my medical expenses have gone up and I can not afford this payment. I tried to negotiate with Navient to lower the payment but they refused. Then I gave them my to the XXXX budget on my fixed income, they told me things like, "" Eat less {$200.00} for groceries is too much for a person '' ( mind you I am a senior ), they also told me, "" get rid of your dog it 's too expensive '', additionally that haircuts are luxuries and most recently that they would GARNISH or TAKE my social security check. I have seen a financial counselor who assured me this is a private loan and they can not garnish my social security but Navient 's threats to me had me shaken and seriously nervous. I have since decided to stop paying the loan and sent them a cease and desist letter. Navient was robo calling me 6-8 times a day and I have it documents before the letter. The financial counselor called them with me and advised them not to call me until they received the Cease and Desist Letter. They did stop for a week. I sent the letter with a return receipt and got confirmation that Navient has received the letter. Amazingly, Navient started calling a week later, when I stated I sent a Cease and desist letter they denied they ever got it. I have my return receipt stamped by Navient stating they received it. They told me I had to email it over but I do not have email. Thankfully my financial advisor emailed it over from her email. Her contact is XXXX XXXX, from XXXX, a non-profit that is contracted by the XXXX XXXX."
1632,"I started going to XXXX college to take courses to qualify for XXXX in my state. Nelnet put me on automatic deferment. I have no major concerns with that, but what has really pissed me off is that I have called on multiple occasions to tell them to reinstate my automatic ACH payments. I have money to pay for my student loans and do not need nor do I want the deferment. It is now XXXX and I am seeing that my last payment was made on XXXX 2016. There is no way I can payback multiple months. But they need to reinstate my ACH payments! Why are they refusing to do this? I have a right to pay my debt!"
8387,"School : University of XXXX ( XXXX XXXX XXXX, XXXX ) HI CFPB, I just wanted to let you know about my experience with Navient. I have around {$60000.00} worth of debt and pay around {$1000.00} a month to them. I tried to get them to extend my payment schedule or put me on an income based repayment plan, but they refused. Now, I ca n't move out of my parent 's house, ca n't afford grad school, and I am barely breaking even each month. I tried to consolidate my loans through another bank, because I was unable to pay Navient for three months last year. 

Thank you for all that you do. Please help fix this crisis. 

Cheers, XXXX XXXX"
700,"Before my loans were in repayment I was making payments on the loans, There is nothing that says I can not pay on my principal balance, and yes I am allowed to pay ahead with out prepayment penality. I my case I considered my payments being a penality since the payments would only go toward the interest first and nothing to the principal balance. Please remember I was not in repayment status at that time. Only now that I am in repayment does part of my payment go toward principal. Now I am receiving, "" capitalized interest '' meaning, my interest is being added to my principal and I get charged interest in my interest. What? No Bank, credit card or other legitimate lending institution would be allowed to do this. One loan  XXXX   XXXX ,  XXXX  my principal and interest combined balance was {$5300.00} today  XXXX   XXXX ,  XXXX  the principal balance is {$5500.00}. How can a company that gives the impression it is a government based program, and I think it is, rip us off like this and do it to millions of people and continue to no matter what. I feel like my goveronment hates me ; make billions of dollars off illegal lending practices and I will get this paid off, NEVER."
746,attempted to pay off the highest interest rate and it was never allowed to. i deferred my payments due to being laid off. and the end result was they lowered my payments in deception as to prolong my loans being paid off.
5637,"I 'm in a double situation of annoyance. I was a previous student of the XXXX XXXX of XXXX. A company that was sued not that long ago for fraudulent activities and recruiting low income students in order to take out more loans than needed. On top of NOT being accredited, it made it significantly difficult to transfer credits to a better/reputable school. The credits themselves do n't even transfer to their OTHER XXXX branches. Forcing students to take out more money for classes because they credits could n't transfer over to schools within the same company. My loans were being handled by XXXX XXXX now Navient and it 's a nightmare. I ca n't afford to pay my loans off. They have absolutely no kind of payment plan that is affordable. When I had tried in the past to explain that I do n't have {$500.00} a month because what should I do? Not eat? Not pay rent? They hung up on me. When I called back the woman only wanted to speak to me if I could pay their price. I keep submitting for forbearance because I can not pay. What makes it worse is that my degree is considered useless. I could barely find employment in my field. Their graduation was a huge joke because all their graduates were supposed to have a showcase for recruiters show up. Not a single recruiter showed up for ANY department the students were in. I ca n't afford to go to another school and get a BETTER education from an accredited place and am stuck with XXXX worth of debt until probably the day I die. I find this extremely unfair that everyone was aware of the XXXX XXXX 's shady practices, SUED them and not a single student of that school that was a victim of their shady practices saw any kind of benefit. Now XXXX/Navient is being sued for the same nonsense and what will come out of it for me? Does my debt get abolished? Will I get my credit back to a decent place? Will I receive money to go to a new school? I hate that I did the right thing by trying to get an education only to end up misled and scammed by BOTH of these organizations. I 'm XXXX and have to pretty much START all over again in education paying desperately out of pocket for classes here and there because I ca n't afford to take out anymore loans to attend a school. Not even a community college."
4048,"Twice now my federal tax refund has been withheld in its entirety to go toward these student loans. However, my credit report reflects that while my entire refund was withheld, only a portion of that actually went toward the balance on the loan. 

My refund amount from 2016 was {$830.00}. My credit report shows the loan balance decreased by only {$400.00}. I have been unsuccessful in getting the collection agency to furnish proof / payment history on the account."
4562,"AES -XXXX. After 5 yrs of getting a steady paycheck after graduation I became XXXX. I talked to AES in regards to the program they have called "" Long Term Payment Modification '' submitted all the application around XX/XX/XXXX and we went back and forth sending other information they needed, I submitted copies of my tax returns to justify how my income decreased and also submitted the consignor release form. I kept calling them weekly to confirm what information they exactly needed, the last time I talked to them they told me the only document I needed to resend was my XX/XX/XXXX tax returns and within 10 business days I would know if my application was approved. XX/XX/XXXX, I get an email saying my application has expired and I have to submit everything again. I look over the application documents there is no deadline, I am not sure how they decided my application out of nowhere expired? I need help, another of the clauses says the loans have to be current and with no late payments for the application to be accepted I cant keep up with the payments unfortunately and will be in default soon."
4193,The auto-debit system overcharged me approximately {$540.00} for the month of XX/XX/XXXX. This placed undue pressure on my financial situation by making a large drawdown on my savings account. The auto-debit instructions make no statement about the potential to overpay for the month.
3232,"My student loans are handled by Navient. When I completed XXXX school in XX/XX/XXXX I was under the graduated repayment plan. This plan indicated that my loans would be repaid in 10 years. I have not changed my status and I have made all on time payments. When I looked at my loans recently I was shocked to see that the loan end date for the majority of my loans were in XX/XX/XXXX. That is 30 years post graduation and a far cry from the 13 year repayment plan. I want to know what steps can be taken, if any to repair this. I have in good faith made payments only to find out that I will be paying until I retire. When I spoke with the Navient customer service representative he sent me repayment information schedule that states that the repayment plan is a 10 year plan, which does not represent what I am currently paying."
7368,"I am currently an XXXX. I make less than XXXX a year. At some point, probably 2-3 years ago, my rates went up and I could n't afford the repayment monthly. I was paying around {$410.00} every month for my student loans. One month prior, on XXXX XXXX, 2016, Navient sent me a letter stating I would have a 252 % increase in my current student loan payments beginning on XXXX XXXX, 2016. A 252 % increase is exorbitant and ridiculous on a XXXX salary. They refused to work with me and want to go after my parents. The agent was very rude and pushy and basically told me my parents ' financials need to be given before they will even begin negotiating repayment plans on my student loans. I am XXXX years old and my parents have not been financially responsible for me in 6-7 years. Their financials have never been made known to me, and as a married woman, they are not financially responsible for me. My father is a XXXX for goodness sake, living off a modest pension. I do n't understand how this is even legal. Not to mention, my parents never agreed to the terms of the repayment when I changed them, so I 'm not sure legally how they can be held liable. I have no idea how my husband and I are going to be able to afford this."
302,I had a loan of XXXX in 2007 ... .I could n't afford the payments at the time and had to due a forbearance.mthat initially racked my bill up to over XXXX ... this has been hauntin me for years ... I can not get a loan to buy a house or get a car..please help!
5312,"I graduted on XXXX 2007, from XXXX XXXX XXXX, right now my student loans is about XXXX or more, I ca n't paid my loan, I 'm single mother of XXXX, work XXXX hours a week to paid rent, utilities, food etc. I would like to know if XXXX charge me a lot of money got a my XXXX, I do n't work in computers, they didnt help me to find a job. So I would like to know if I have a case. My credit is so poor right now, that I ca n't even buy a house o a car. Help me please"
5436,"Hello. My daughter went to XXXX, a for-profit school out of XXXX. We were given no financial aid right out of the gate so we took multiple loans in my name ( her mother ) -all Federal in the beginning. The school had defrauded us by saying they will place her in an externship making good money, she made $ XXXX/hr on her XXXX ... not nearly enough to start making payments on the loans. The school told us it had a XXXX % job placement after school. That was also a lie. The school also told us it was accredited. Upon her trying to further her education down the line, it is now known the schools accreditation is lost and her credits are not able to be used as a base for furthering her education. The degree that we continue to pay for is utterly useless as no one accepts these credits. We were looking into Loan Forgiveness from being defrauded by the school, but were told since our Federal Loans were consolidated into private loans and they could not assist-even though the loans originally were federally backed. I have asked about Income Based / Income Sensitive repayment, which works for a time being all the while not touching the total amount due and tacks on interest, etc. and is not a solution by any means. I have extended repayment already and as long as it goes just to get the payment down and even that payment we struggle to meet every month. There needs to be a resolution here and we did n't realize that going to a for-profit school would become this kind of a hassle."
6224,"Since XX/XX/XXXX, American Education Services has increased the interest of my student loans. Account number in reference is XXXX. Please see below. 
LOAN INFORMATION Loan Program Current Owner Disbursement Date Interest Rate Interest RateEffective Date PEPLN NCT XX/XX/XXXX 5.180 % XX/XX/XXXX LOAN INFORMATION Loan Program Current Owner Disbursement Date Interest Rate Interest RateEffective Date PEPLN NCT XX/XX/XXXX 5.200 % XX/XX/XXXX LOAN INFORMATION Loan Program Current Owner Disbursement Date Interest Rate Interest RateEffective Date PEPLN NCT XX/XX/XXXX 5.250 % XX/XX/XXXX There is no specifics as why the increase in rates for 3 consecutive times within a year. I would like to investigate and find a resolution. 

Respectfully, XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX, OH XXXX Phone XXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX"
1892,"I am a XXXX and I have a large amount of debt from XXXX school. I have been on Income Based Repayment ( IBR ) since I started XXXX in XXXX XXXX. Later in XXXX, when it was time to re-apply for IBR, I filled out all of the paperwork and submitted it on time. I received confirmation that my paperwork was received, and ultimately it was approved. When my first bill for XXXX XXXX came, it said I owed over {$1700.00}, where my payments listed on the IBR approval were only ~ {$400.00}. I called and was told there was nothing to do and that I owed the $ 1700+. I requested to talk to a manager and was repeatedly refused until the person finally agreed. I spoke with several managers, and was repeatedly told that they did n't know why, but my IBR payments do n't start until the following month. No one could tell me why, since the paperwork was on time. I told them that I could not pay it, and they repeatedly said that the only option was to put my loan in forbearance. I told them I should not have to do that because I can make appropriate IBR payments that have been approved, but they said the only way to not have to pay that $ 1700+ was to enter forbearance. They told me they could put it in forbearance for just a day, then I could make the IBR payments. I did not want to be placed in forbearance since that messes up my consecutive payments and also uses up my forbearance, but they gave me no other option. 

Additionally, my first year of IBR my payments were ~ XXXX per month. The following year, where my income increased by over {$5000.00} per year, my payments were ~ {$180.00}, which did n't make sense to me how that could happen. I called multiple times to make sure I was paying enough, and no-one would tell me how it was calculated or why the new IBR would be lower given my higher salary. I explained why it did n't make sense, and the people agreed it did n't make any sense. They told me not to question it because the payments were lower. I am now concerned that these payments will not qualify for federal student loan forgiveness programs. 

Every time I call them, I get a different answer for the same question, and I have been told multiple times things that are not true. I feel like they are always trying to get me to go into forbearance. Now all those documents are gone, because they only post them online. I did n't think to print them, and they are gone after 12 months online."
3722,Immediate credit recovery submitted me to garnishment to stop my process of consolidation that was submitted. They are falsely reporting on my student loan account and not properly servicing my student loans. They need to stop this garnishment asap and honor my consolidation.
2659,On XXXX/XXXX/2016 I attempted to set up auto pay on the Navient website. They said it was not available. I waited until XXXX to try again. They have already marked my payment late. This is the second time since they took over the loan I have been prevented from making a payment and been marked late. My loan was suppose to be income sensitive. It has lost that status since they took it over.
2198,"I made additional payments towards XXXX specific loan each month : I would choose the 'do not advance my payments ' option but each month when the automated debit would be drawn from my account, the monetary value towards my loans would be re-allocated across all loans and not put towards the loan that I had made an extra payment on. Hence the money was not put towards the principle of the XXXX specific loan, but spread out over interest of all the other loans. This happened every month from XX/XX/XXXX, to XX/XX/XXXX I would call every month and have it fixed, and complain that I call monthly, then it was finally fixed in XX/XX/XXXX. I worry that the additional payments, or the large payment I made before payments were required, ( prior to XX/XX/XXXX ), were allocated incorrectly. 
It was a {$10000.00} payment, so if it was done incorrectly it would help a great deal to have that looked at and fixed."
1768,"Issue with Navient Student Loans - I refinanced my mortgage and closed XXXX XXXX, 2016. The escrow company sent checks to pay off my wife 's student loans. Navient cashed XXXX check, lost the XXXX one, and we found out a month later they did n't credit any of the monies against her account. But we had to call to have them send back the money they kept. 

We 've called like 10 times, spoken to supervisors, been sent to other departments, etc. 

Navient then returned some funds, so we sent XXXX more checks XX/XX/XXXX to clear the account. They cashed the checks but did not credit the accounts for the monies they 've received. My wife 's account then went into default, so we did a forbearance. 

A month later they said they sent out the checks to escrow. Three weeks later we called again and they said no they had n't sent the checks but were sending them out. Then weeks went by, no checks, and they said they still had n't sent them out, but they would. 

Now it 's XX/XX/XXXX, no checks, they said they sent the checks out again and no one has seen the checks. 

We just want them to take the money they have of ours and credit her account, credit her with the interest they 've overcharged her while they had her money, and be done with this and Navient! 

XXXX XXXX XXXX wife XXXX XXXX"
4252,"I was told this XX/XX/XXXX that my Income based repayment plan would continue as long as I provided my tax information each year. Which I 'm sure I read when I started the XXXX many years ago. However I was never told what my calendar year anniversary was, or a specific date. Rather that I had just to provide my tax info once I had it. Now I realize that each year they 've added interest to my principle while I waited for my tax info to arrive and then to file it. The representative at Nelnet never stated a specific date but just a general statement, He said "" once you 've got your tax info turn it in to us to continue with the XXXX ''. I 've just been told today by another representative at Nelnet that my XXXX lapsed for a period and over {$3000.00} has now been added to my principle and there 's nothing that can be done about that.That 's equal to or more than I will make in payments ... I can only guess that this has happened each year and they just gladly applied that to my principle but never called me to state if we do n't get "" X '' information by this date you will get booted from the IBR. This is a terrible and deceptive business practice."
9221,"case : XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX vs. XXXX XXXX XXXX USA Funds , first step : mailed out verification letter to XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX, XXXX, in which communication was only thru mail.At the same time I received in mail correspondence from USA Funds stating need more proof and a police report. I had XXXX XXXX XXXX only come to court for a pending lawsuit XXXX/XXXX/XXXX, and proof of actual account due to fact they had called me on phone in XXXX and did n't provide proof of signature and actual agreement in mail within 30 days.Case was seen by a judge and lawsuit was agreed to be dropped by me based on them stating they will not report accounts due to not having agreement with me showing a valid signature plus being a collection agency with no agreement by me and their office on XXXX XXXX. The DEFENDANTS ATTORNEY showed me documents with an itemized loan from USA FUNDS XXXX/XXXX/XXXX with XXXX accounts.As of now on my credit report it shows XXXX accounts USA FUNDS opened on XXXX/XXXX/XXXX. I am not in college or have attended."
3614,"Hello, My name is XXXX XXXX and I attended XXXX College in XXXX Ferry, NY. I took out loans from XXXX and Navient. My Federal Government Loans are with Navient. I believe that XXXX College made me take out to many Government Loans, Sub and Unsub. XXXX College made me take out loans for 3-4 semesters that coast me each semester around $ XXXX- {$16000.00}, when a semester was around {$8000.00}, {$8500.00}. I do n't understand why they charged me so much and also made me take out so many loans when I was also paying half cash. I am now in debt because of the the amount that I borrowed and the interest rate Navient gave me. My father is the co-signer and he has excellent credit and they still gave me a high interest rate. Navient wants per month {$400.00}, but it is expensive for me. I will have to pay more because the interest rate they gave me is to high and I know {$400.00} will only go towards the interest. I will have to send in more for it to go towards my loan. They told me they could lower my payments, but how does that help me? The amount I owe to Navient will take me 30 years to finish paying it off. I need help and I do n't know what to do."
3659,Enrolled in paperless billing. Was not billed nor called. Was only notified when my payment was 60 days past due. Brought account current immediately ; reported as delinquent to credit bureau one month later. Second issue with this loan servicer in one year. Difficult to reach the right people to speak with. Reps insist they can help and refuse to place you on the line with a supervisor. Will claim they spoke with one on your behalf. Should have paid closer attention when doing my research about ACS Education. My other loans are serviced by XXXX XXXX never had a problem.
8077,"I received a letter in the mail a couple of weeks ago stating that my student loan payment was being reduced because of a government ruling. It dropped a few dollars. 
Then I received another letter in a non-descript junk mail looking envelope. I opened it and it stated that my payment had dropped because they were reseting my loan to the maximum term under federal guidelines..My monthly payment would go down but the overall cost of my loan would increase. 

I immediately called them to correct the situation. Had I not opened the letter by chance I would not have known, and the provider would have gathered an extra year of interest fees. This was from Navient. It was very deceptive and with the sole purpose of trying to slide by an increase in my payment amount over time. 
This is not forthright or ethical, downright sneaky and deceptive."
5834,"I am a recent medical school graduate and currently a family medicine resident. I am also a XXXX year old father of XXXX, married to my sweetheart for eleven years XX/XX/XXXX. My wife has been very ill and XXXX since XXXX. American Education services and XXXX XXXX ( bankrupt XXXX ) have ruined my credit. They reported me as being XXXX 130 days delinquent to the credit bureaus and yet failed to send me any bills as to make me aware that any of my loans were in repayment. My father is a cosigner on the private loan in question, his credit has been damaged and he was not sent any bills either. 
I have made repeated pleas to representatives from AES since XX/XX/XXXX ( my third year of XXXX ) when I was notified by a collections agency ( XXXX XXXX ) that my loans serviced through AES were past due. I had not received any bills for these loans from AES prior to XXXX XXXX contacting me in regards to the in collections status, upon contacting AES I was told that I had requested electronic bills. I notified the representative that this status was a mistake and I requested to have all bills physically sent to me through the mail from thereon. The representative told me that they lacked the ability to change the billing method of correspondence and that I would have to do that myself online, I then requested to speak to a supervisor and I was transferred. I made the request to the supervisor to receive all futures bills in the mail. I then paid the amount that was past due to XXXX XXXX, the loans were returned to AES and I was notified that I qualified for unemployment forbearance for a maximum of 12 months. I submitted the application and supporting documentation quarterly through the following year and my requests were granted. In XXXX XXXX I contacted AES to explain that I was still unemployed and indeed unemployable due to my status as a full time medical student. I requested to speak to a supervisor ( XXXX XXXX ID # XXXX ) and he advised me to draft a letter to XXXX XXXX requesting a special deferment. I did this and submitted it to AES via e-mail as instructed. I spoke with my father and told him about the situation, he advised me to forward any bills that I was to receive to him that and that he would make payments until such time as I was eligible for internship/residency deferment. 
I did not hear back from AES regarding this request, and with my wife having had to go to the XXXX 7 times over the following 2 and 1/2 months with multiple hospitalizations, I still received no bills, neither did my father. I open everything I received from AES the day they were delivered, and everything that AES can produce on paper was sent to me, except for a bill. You see, once again AES had failed to follow through on my multiple requests to have all bills physically sent to me. 
I was reported as having been delinquent to the credit bureaus, and sent a notice from AES that I was XXXX 130 days delinquent and the entire loan amount was being called due. I have made four payments since that time, and have applied for Internship/residency deferment with supporting documentation, but AES and XXXX XXXX have repeatedly denied my requests stating that my account is too delinquent. I was told that 150 days is the maximum allowed for this deferment to be applied, and conveniently AES delayed the processing of my request ( received by AES XX/XX/XXXX ) and neglected to make a decision until XX/XX/XXXX which put me at 151 days delinquency. They deny any wrongdoing and have merely apologized for any inconvenience. I called again last week and asked a supervisor to help me : XXXX at extension # XXXX, told me he looked through my account with a manager and told me that I have not been eligible for the deferment since the delinquency was first reported, ( before I was notified ), and there seems to be no way out."
7012,"I took out a {$10000.00} student loan from XXXX in XX/XX/XXXX. I finished school in spring XX/XX/XXXX. After I graduated, I was unable to find a job to begin making payment on the loan. After being harassed starting 3 months after I graduated, the loan was finally defaulted on after a few months. Eventually after finding a job, I still was unable to make payments, but the loan had been handed over to navient. The company was unwilling to do any type of forbearance or deferment to help reduce the payments. Currently, I 've tried again to help fix the issue but I 'm completely unable to even speak with anyone from navient. I 'm automatically transferred to a 3rd party for collection. The collection agency offers settlement options that are competent unrealistic. They offer me a settlement ranging from $ XXXX {$8000.00} or a payment plan to reduce to the interest rate. As they said he current interest rate, the monthly payment would go only to interest and never touch the principal balance. The issue with the payment reduction plan is that it requires too much month up front ranging from $ XXXX {$2000.00} and then followed by monthly payments that are unaffordable. I just want to clear up this debt or get help with repayment from NAVIENT because the 3rd party collection agency ca n't even negotiate the terms of the settlement. No one would benefit. But on the other side NAVIENT is completely unwilling to communicate with me to discuss options. And they still currently service the loan."
3048,"I was in a repayment agreement with GC Services for XXXX. After my tax refund was offset I learned not all of my loans were included as I was led to believe. I have since consolidated through XXXX XXXX. GC Services/XXXX was notified on XXXX/XXXX/16. Also in XXXX, XXXX, on XXXX/XXXX/16 and XXXX/XXXX/16 GC Services/XXXX was specifically told not to call me at my place of employment. They are able to call my cell phone, which they do, although they do not leave a message, they only try to call and then call my employer immediately thereafter. My consolidation loan is complete, and they are no longer able to collect for that debt. They have been told 4 times I am not allowed to be called at work, and they continue to do so, despite the fact that it jeopardizes my employment - and therefore my ability to pay back any of my student loans."
6688,"My daughter and I borrowed money from Sallie Mae to cover tuition for XXXX semesters at the University XXXX. The checks were written to the University and endorsed by my daughter. XXXX of these loans are now being handled by XXXX, which I do n't totally understand. We are trying to consolidate these loans and hopefully negotiate a lower interest rate. There are institutions that are willing to help but claim that if the loans do not show up in the XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX ( XXXX ) they can not help us. I do not understand how money that was borrowed from the Federal Government and used strictly for tuition is not considered a Federal Student Loan."
8256,"On XX/XX/2016 I called to request my payment to be increased to pay all my loans off in XXXX mo 's. The representative stated it will be {$790.00} in total. On XX/XX/2016, they pulled {$850.00}, a {$64.00} difference. On XX/XX/2016 I called Navient to request the correct payment and a refund of the {$64.00}. I asked the representative to recalculate my payment so that it could be paid off in XXXX years, and she stated that they miscalculated my payment before and she needed to correct it. She stated my total payment is now going to be {$750.00} .After a XXXX minute call and escalating the issue twice to a supervisor I was approved the refund for {$64.00} and they stated that it would put my account in delinquent status but that status will fall off in a few days. As of XXXX today, my account is still in red despite the fact it was paid. I was told the {$64.00} would credit my account on XX/XX/2016, and no such credit is received. Furthermore, I know the payment of {$750.00} is incorrect because the statement I was issued from them shows a payment term of XXXX months, not XXXX as I requested twice before. I also see on my statement they changed my repayment terms, which might mean I am no longer able to just pay the minimum if I wish to no longer pay my loan aggressively. 
My goal is to have a XXXX month payment amount but not have that be what my minimum required payment amount is. I do n't want them to change the loan terms, but to keep the original agreement I signed in my promissory note to XXXX XXXX before Navient started servicing it. I am increasing my payments to them, so I do n't see why they have to mark me as delinquent and lie to me and say that my payment is XXXX months when looking at my statement it is XXXX months. 
I am employed at a financial institution where I process loans. I am appalled by their behavior and their refusal to correctly calculate payments. They threatened to put my loan as delinquent when I asked for the {$64.00} back even though it was a servicing error on their part. Furthermore, when I faxed a request for a {$10.00} credit for the overdraft fee to my account that ensued by this {$64.00} discrepancy, the request was never addressed and no action was taken on their part to rectify the situation. 
I do n't believe that Navient is acting in the best interest of their customers. My hope is that with this complaint you can look into the company and instigate new regulatory procedures they should follow in order to better their financial relationships."
6805,"My Navient account is locked due to failed attempts at logging in. Even though I use plenty of personal information to retrieve username and changing password. It says, I should call them to have them unlock it. 
I 've called multiple times in the past year only to be on hold for more than 45 minutes then I hang up. I 've gotten though once, only to be told, "" I do n't know how to help you '' and then asked to be transferred to someone that does. During the "" transferring '' of the call, I 'm hung up on. I 've stopped bothering to get into my account because it 's on auto pay and they do n't bother me. 
However, it 's ridiculous for this to be happening. Managing your account should n't be this hard."
8768,"XXXX was my private student loan provider. Upon graduating from college, I called because I heard it is good to try to consolidate your loans. XXXX told me that I was no longer able to consolidate because it must be done after my 4 year program. Since I went to school for 5 years, I was past the time limit and could no longer consolidate any of them. I was a full time student. How can this be fair?"
9991,"My loan was through XXXX XXXX of XXXX, I graduated XX/XX/XXXX, XXXX put it into collections XX/XX/XXXX with out notice to revenue services. I contact revenue services made payment arguments, then they closed my account. I was recently contacted by one advantage that stated I had one day to come up with half of the payment and refused to accept anything less, and stated if I do n't they will put my account into collection the fallowing day. Am I still accountable for this account and if so what are my rights? I did pay a one time payment online of XXXX ."
6011,"I have been enrolled in the XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX for loan repayment. I am nearing the end of my 2 year commitment. I am required to verify that the entire XXXX dollars provided to me was put on my non-cosigned signature loans. I reviewed my account and found that I was approximately XXXX dollars short. So I contacted navient, gave the the loan number that the money needed to go on and requested a receipt verifying that this was done. The check was a bank check and my bank also printed the loan on number on the check. I did not receive a receipt so I checked my account and found that Navient had spread the funds over several accounts. If I can not verify that all of the XXXX dollars went to the XXXX listed loans, I can be fined over double of the amount given. ( over XXXX dollars."
8398,"I have been trying to negotiate with XXXX XXXX - now NAVIENT - since 2011 to discharge my loans, based on my status as a XXXX person and, based on their standard requirements for discharge - which I have shown them I meet. I have provided ample medical documentation, including doctor 's statements and still, they refuse to discharge. They have not, as yet, put my loans into default. Despite numerous requests, they will not provide me with reasons for their refusal to discharge. There should be some reasonable recourse for me to get them to follow their own rules."
7410,Sallie Mae is the loan servicers for a loan I co-signed for my daughter for college education costs. When loan papers were signed information regarding my bank accounts was not required. Now Sallie Mae is requiring that I give my routing and checking numbers JUST TO LOG ON to their site to review my account information even though I do n't pay online. This is not a reasonable requirement and needs to be changed immediately.
8441,"When I was in my first year rs in college, my dad got laid off and was having trouble to find a job. After several options he decided to go back to school and they offered a truck driver job and the school had this lender of the company AES American Education Services ... He needed a co-signer, so I though it was a normal Federal Student loan. I was about XXXX years old so I was n't sure what I was going into, so I heped him. As a daughter I wanted to help my dad to reach his goal. 

Unfortunately, my dad passed away 3 years ago leaving me with his debt .... I said leaving his death because the company will not forgive the debt even though he is no longer with us. 

I am a recent college student and I have student loans of my own ... Besides this loan interest accrues daily, a clause that I was not aware because I was not well informed when I sign in for this loan ... 

I think this company is a true rip off, they are not here to help, they are a company that wants to take advantage of low middle class- they make people pay triple of what they lend and have no decency, ethics and any kind of good attributes that a student lender should have. Persons like us are trying to have a better way of living but with companies like this we never can get a good start. So disappointing. 

I am now paying my student loans together with this extra student loan with a annual income of {$40000.00} and of course, got to do this in order to have a clean credit record because then I would not have a job since I am not paying my student loans on time ... ... 

XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX TX XXXX REPAYMENT Disbursement Information Disbursement Date : XX/XX/XXXX Loan Program : XXXX Owner : XXXX Guarantor : XXXX - XXXX School : TEXAS XXXX XXXX Out of School Date : Out of School Date is the date provided by your school that typically represents when you will/did graduate or when you were no longer enrolled at least half time. 

Below are some common reasons why this date may not reflect your current or actual status : You previously left school and have since returned. Therefore, your out of school date represents the original date you graduated or ceased to be enrolled at least half time. 
Your school only reports the current academic year or term ; not the full length of your program. 
You have a private loan that allows for a maximum amount of time for an In School Status. Therefore, the Out of School Date represents when you have reached this maximum. 
No Out of School Date listed? Some loan programs do not use an Out of School Date for determining when repayment begins, including : PLUS, Graduate PLUS, Consolidation, and many private loans. 

Please contact your school if you have questions about your Out of School Date. 

Close this Help Text XX/XX/XXXX Interest Rate Information Interest Rate : 5.12 % Interest Rate Type : STANDARD VARIABLE Subsidy : NON SUB Loan Balance Original Balance : {$6400.00} Late Fees : {$0.00} Unpaid Interest : {$0.00} Current Balance : {$4500.00} Payment Information Monthly Payment : -- Repayment Term : 121 Months Expected Payoff Date : XX/XX/XXXX Due Date Information Next Due Date : XX/XX/XXXX Days Delinquent : XXXX"
6746,"I completed grad school in XX/XX/XXXX. A previous student loan was in deferrment while I was in school and I requested the deferrment continue for the first six months after school. I recently started getting collection calls from Navient for my approximately {$10000.00} loan. They say I was supposed to start paying back the loan in XXXX when I finished school. They informed me that the loan was due immediately because I had dropped out of school. This is not true, I graduated from school. 

In the fall of XX/XX/XXXX, I consolidated all of my Federal student loans and lowered the interest rate to 3.25 %. My student loan through Navient is 6.25 % interest with a variable rate and the payments are very high for such a small loan. I requested the opportunity refinance at a lower fixed rate and they have told me that they do not refinance and I am stuck with the loan as-is. I need help lowering my interest rate and getting it fixed."
4700,"I took out loans for a large sum to put XXXX children through college. Total loan amount was just under {$200000.00}. One day after paying on the loans for over a year, I noticed the balance at {$200000.00} and when I called they said that I was late on XXXX or XXXX payments. I challenged that fact and they said it was only a couple days each time, but it caused my interest rate to go up .25 % from the inception of the loan."
201,Okay I registered for ( XXXX school ) XXXX the school of XXXX in XX/XX/2011 and mid way through my mother fell gravely ill I had to quit the school. I was never certifieed or licensed and did not finish my schooling there. I feel that I was n't fully educated on how a school loan would effect my finances later on as it was my first time receiving XXXX ... .I also have seen how other school educate their students on the various components of the school loans and grants and I know for a fact I was not given that same education on loan awareness and now I still have this outstanding loan which is affecting my credit score and lifestyle. Please help me to resolve this issue immediately. Thank you
535,"I completed medical school in XX/XX/XXXX and consolidated all my outstanding XXXX student loans at that time with an interest rate of XXXX %. Over the last XXXX years, my rate has dropped to XXXX % due to discounts I have received for on-time repayment history ( 1 % discount ) and enrolling in autopay ( 0.25 % discount ). In XX/XX/XXXX my XXXX XXXX was transferred from XXXX to Navient. I received a letter from Navient on XXXX/XXXX/XXXX informing me that my monthly re-payment amount would increase from {$480.00} per month to {$490.00} per month. It was my understanding that loan repayment terms should not change when the loan is transferred to a new XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX to Navient XXXX. I called Navient to inquire, and they confirmed that my interest rate has not changed. It is still XXXX % however I continue to receive the 1 % on-time payment discount and XXXX % autopay discount, making it effectively XXXX % as before. They explained that they recalculated the loan using the higher interest rate of XXXX % and that if I continued to make the higher payment, the extra {$10.00} per month difference would go towards paying down the principal every month, and that I would actually be paying the loan off faster and enjoy lower interest payments going forward. This has not occurred. On my XX/XX/XXXX Navient statement ( prior to the increase in monthly payments ; total payment was {$480.00} ), I paid {$340.00} in principal and {$140.00} in interest. XXXX months later, on my XX/XX/XXXX Navient statement ( after the increase in monthly payments ; total payment being {$490.00} ) I paid {$350.00} in principal and {$140.00} in interest. Therefore I am paying only ~ {$5.00} more in monthly principal payments, and actually continuing to pay more per month in interest as well. I believe that I have been overcharged on my loan since Navient increased my monthly payments on XX/XX/XXXX. The additional payment has not been going towards principal payments and they are charging me a higher interest rate than when they took over my loan from XXXX who was my previous XXXX XXXX."
896,"I call in monthly to make my payments over the phone. When I first began with this method, I realized quickly that I was constantly showing an overdue balance each month as a result of unpaid loan balance on a second page of loans that I was unaware of. As soon as I was aware that I had two separate pages of loans, I requested each time I called, to have my payment processed towards both pages of loans so as to avoid any late fees. 
They have repeatedly told me that they see this request in their previous notes, and that this should be done automatically by all employees, yet I am still having the same issue. I am forced to check my statements more than periodically and constantly afraid of missing another error. They seem to use this as a tool to coerce me into an auto draft plan which I am not interested in."
1677,"I was laid off from my job for the second time and decided to go back to school. As I went through they were lookin it my and my husbands income as well. I needed to get a full-time job, so when I went back to working full time they told me I had to start paying off this loan. I 'm XXXX XXXX less than half of my paycheck and is very burdensome. I struggle every month trying to pay that bill as well as my other responsibilities, i.e., my monthly bills. 
If I could get some of my {$66000.00} debt of student loans, and parents plus loans down, this would help me tremendously. I 'm trying to go back to school to earn an XXXX, but I will be XXXX or XXXX years old before I am able to even think about not having to pay any more educational loans."
3344,"I was paying off my principle and interest on loans while I was actively enrolled in school. I read that by doing this my interest rate for future loans would be reduced rather than continuing to increase. However, my interest rates continued to increase significantly even though I was paying some of my loans off in full. They also did not provide loan repayment options, help with consolidation, or track my payments."
6533,"I am currently enrolled in a XXXX program and unable to pay my student loans, I have called Navient everyday for a week and most days 3 times. I have verified that my school has submitted my name to the XXXX XXXX XXXX and Navient is unable to find my information there to confirm that I am enrolled full time. I called today and pleaded with the representative at Navient to look in the system or transfer me to a supervisor that may be better equipped to assist me. Instead I was spoken to in a rude condescending manner. I had to apologize to the representative for bothering her. I do understand that Navient is trying to do all they can to get a payment for their loans. 
I do not think it is fair for these loan companies to belittle their customers by screaming at them or ridiculing the distressing financial situations of their customers. This behavior is similar to "" bill collecting '' and not assisting customers. 
My school official has submitted my enrollment to XXXX XXXX every 3 months since I started my graduate program in XX/XX/XXXX. The Navient representatives are claiming that the last record of my full time enrollment in the National Clearinghouse records is XX/XX/XXXX. This information is grossly inaccurate as I am currently registered in a 3 year full time XXXX and received my loan disbursement a month and a half ago."
3557,"Before my loans went into repayment once I graduated from grad school, I chose to consolidate. My loans were transferred to FedLoan Servicing. I have previously had loans consolidated with XXXX and have only had good experiences. I currently pay my student loans from my previous degree through XXXX 's direct debit system, with the same bank I am attempting to use with FedLoan. They have repeatedly approved my application for direct debit, then told me I had insufficient funds ( I do not ). I have had issues with them telling me my routing number is wrong, I change it to the one they tell me, then it 's still not going through. It seems that they are deliberately complicating the process of direct debit so that the interest rates do not have to be dropped the tiny portion of a percent. Every time I use my banking information to make a phone payment, that MAGICALLY goes through. I have been calling them at LEAST monthly to correct this issue since XX/XX/XXXX and it is now XX/XX/XXXX. I have launched my second complaint with the ombudsman and requested that I have my account transferred to another provider, hopefully XXXX, because clearly this is a predatory lender."
6266,"1. I have received bad data regarding my private student loan. I tried to process a request for automatic debit from my checking account. I thought it was processing but I was still receiving calls and was told I needed to pay a payment in order to process my automatic debit. I paid a payment and fond out my loan request has still not been processed. 

2. I have been receiving phone call past normal hours of collection per Missouri state law. I have rerecorded all call and will be submitting another complaint with phone recorded and a letter from my lawyer. 

3. Due to the switch from XXXX the Navinent and the change in payer accounts this has cause my private loan payment to delay. I have tried to resole this through the customer line but was told nothing they can do. I do n't feel proper notice or time was given for people to switch over bank account info and online payment methods. 

4. The current int rates for my private loans is way above the national average and the rates my other private loans are. I have tried to resolve this with navinet but have been unable to resolve this. I 'm working with class action with a number of account holders on this very topic so I expect not to be over charged or charged more than someone else for Private student loan int."
2896,"Since the complaints and lawsuits have been put into the lime light against Navient, and seeing how they seem to align with how I 've been treated, I decided to file a formal complaint. Over the course of my Navient loan I have asked for forbearance, but have also been innocuously ( or so it seemed ) been driven towards forbearance. One time in particular I had gone on unemployment due to a lack of work through my job and had contacted Navient about my inability for a long while to access my account online with them. Through contacting them I talked to a woman who also talked about my forvearance ending soon. So, I brought the XXXX up and she 'd directed me to go online and file out a specific form ... to which I reaponded that i could n't get online. I was told I 'd be sent the form through email ... and I have n't gotten it. Now, come some time later I call and end up going on forbearance because I ca n't get online to access anything they 're saying would or could be provided for me. I feel between a rock and a hard place .... I hear all the time of payments getting lost or mixed up and as a person who really ca n't afford to have payments just *poof* disappear ; I 'm afraid. Now, starting today it seems that I 'm getting calls by random numbers with 90 % do n't answer ratings because they 're false Navients trying to get money. This is all nervewrecking. 

P.S. I just moved to my new address and have not bothered to try to deal with Navient until my forbearance ended. It just ended this month. Which during the same time all the lawsuits came up. I ca n't even just get online to change the address, nor do I have an identification number to give them to bring up my loan. For all intensive purposes when I 'd called them at first the woman did not know if I 'd even had a loan."
1622,"Good evening, As a single mother with a household of XXXX ( myself and XXXX kids ) and a household income of about XXXX I have always found a way to hold up my end of the bargain with any financial agreements. Since setting up payment arrangements with the servicer of my student loan I have consistently made on time payments as per my agreement, unfortunately I was recently apart of a company wide lay off causing me to fall behind on my payments. It 's no surprise the servicer still expects payments! On top of this, per reading my recent annual credit report I realized the servicer has XXXX derogatory marks on all XXXX of my credit reports with each credit bureau. This hardship is emotionally draining as well as stressful, this has stained my credit causing lenders to deny me due to an error on their part reporting incorrectly. I desperately need a remedy."
5527,"I tried on a number of occasions to get help to repay my loans and they continued to redirect me, or say there was no way because I XXXX. Most XXXX get paid less money and still serve low income XXXX. I am XXXX and have so many students loans it is overwhelming. It has made me feel like I need to leave XXXX all together."
5803,"My credit has been ruined by Navient/XXXX. I experienced a difficult time obtaining a home loan. Since the beginning of XXXX, XXXX XXXX at the time, did n't want to work with me to find a viable payment plan. They just kept asking for whatever was due for the month and told me the only solution was to do a forbearance if I wanted any relief. I told them my situation and that I was n't earning enough to pay the amount they set for me. I was right out of school and they were forcing me to pay almost XXXX of my monthly income. I never missed a payment, I just could n't pay the whole amount in XXXX. They then placed my loan on default status and I was sent to collections in XXXX. I maintained a good record up to this day, but the first year in XXXX, my payments were n't being applied, the amount just kept going up each month. Now my credit report shows I 've been deliquent, despite making monthly payments."
1337,"I would like to make a formal complaint against XXXX XXXX due to the many false claims they make to unsuspecting students who were promised job assistance, the use of predatory loans, and unsubstantiated statistics they claim students benefit while attending and graduating from their school. I attended the school and believe they committed fraud of the highest nature and request a formal inquiry into the school as it is a for-profit institution with many campuses marketing false claims throughout the US. I implore you to help others from making the same mistake I have in attending a school that bolsters its attendance and graduation rates creating undue hardship. I was told prior to attending that there was a XXXX % job placement with assistance from career center, however, no one knew how to help me and claimed it was my own responsibility. The school also reports having real experienced professors from the field, but they instead forced the students to buy a program that played tutorials. This was never discussed prior to going to the school. I would never have gone to an institution that teaches through straight videos. I think those who have been wrongfully subjected to the predatory loans should be dismissed on the wrongful merits this for-profit school claimed in its aggressive marketing campaigns. 

The student in question has suffered greatly as he was marketed heavily based on the conversations and documentation the school provided of their successful ways they find potential permanent positions for graduates. In reality, the burden to pay back the loans is greatly beyond the marketing, financial responsibility, and systematic breakdown of the education system in order to turn a profit on unsuspecting students attempting to obtain higher education. At this time, I owe nearly XXXX XXXX dollars in student loans for an education I have never been able to use. I searched for two years and was never able to obtain even a temporary position. XXXX XXXX marketed the idea of bettering yourself with obtaining a higher education degree with ease and ability to switch professions with extensive assistance from their staff. If I knew these claims to be untrue I would never have enrolled there. In a very serious manner, I have suffered severe XXXX, XXXX, and XXXX and feel I have taken away the future of my family 's financial security and well being due to this school. 
Here is a list of marketing tools the school uses, but failed to follow through : The most direct path to your new career - they give directions specifically how to get financial aid without giving any indication of the total amount. 
Career placement assistance - I was never given any assistance and even told towards the end of my tenor that it was my responsibility. 
No hidden fees - they forced students to purchase a XXXX program to follow through out the program, which was only Microsoft compatible. If you had a MAC, you were forced to purchase the Microsoft Office at XXXX dollars. 
Personalized service centered on you - I never met with one person to help determine my future. 
Instructors with real-world experience - We met once a week and all instruction was through lab tutorials/simulator. 

A list of improper acts perpetrated by XXXX XXXX : Using general statistics of earnings of graduates ; The availability of advertised programs ; The employment assistance the school provides graduates expressing a XXXX % placement of graduates from the XXXX XXXX program ; The school 's role in its private loan program, stating the loan pays for itself as they help you find a position giving you the statistics on how much XXXX graduates earn ; The nature, character, and quality of educational programs ;"
8248,"About two weeks ago my regularly scheduled monthly payment to my private student loan servicer ( Navient ) did n't go through because my bank account balance at that time was a few cents off. Because of this, my bank did n't authorize the payment. I called Navient later that week on XX/XX/XXXX to ask if the company would try to withdraw an electronic check from my account again and he ( XXXX ) said Navient would n't try to withdraw the same payment a second time. Therefore, I made the payment online the following Monday ( XX/XX/XXXX ). The next day ( XX/XX/XXXX ) when I checked my bank account I saw that Navient did try to withdraw a second payment. Which caused my account to be overdrafted with fees being assessed to my account from my bank. I called later that day and spoke with XXXX ( XXXX ) who refunded one of the payments when I told her my situation and that I could n't afford to make multiple payments at one time. A week later, today ( XX/XX/XXXX ) I checked my Navient account online and it shows that I have n't made a payment for XX/XX/XXXX, and that my account is currently delinquent. When I called the Navient representatives they claim they never received a payment, although the second check from ( XX/XX/XXXX ) cleared. I 've spoken with representatives at my bank and they 're showing that I made a payment for last month. Unfortunately this is n't the first time that I 've experienced customer service issues with Navient, last year they claimed they did n't receive a payment that I made. It is obvious that Navient is n't telling their employees proper information about how payments that are n't received the first time are processed. This one payment has caused a never-ending inconvenience. If Navient allowed customers to make payments online without any restrictions I would'nt have to deal with the many mistakes that come from automatic withdrawal. This is yet another reason why we need to have student loan reform in this country! Especially when it comes to private loan servicers like Navient!"
1052,"My Federal & Dept. of Education loans are being serviced by Navient. In making payments to them, I 've noticed I do n't have the ability to designate the allocation of the payment ( s ). Upon reading their allocation terms, I learned that they automatically & unilaterally allocate the entire payment to interest & fees FIRST, principal LAST. This stretches out the life of the loan artificially & takes away my individual right to decide how my money is used in servicing this extremely high debt. I understand there is a class-action lawsuit regarding this very issue & I would like to get more information on how to get involved. The universities I have this debt for attending are : XXXX University XXXX University XXXX."
7489,"AES/PHEAA is reporting an account on my XXXX, XXXX, and XXXX credit reports. It is a very old account from XX/XX/2006, I no longer owe AES, and it should be removed from my credit reports immediately. AES/PHEAA 's company policies or industry standards are of no interest to me. I have no further dealings with AES and I want them removed from my credit reports."
7684,"I attended the XXXX XXXX of XXXX and XXXX in XXXX Illinois. When I applied for student loans I was told my parents income was too high to qualify for federal loans, even though they were unable to help pay my college tuition, and was forced to take out Private Student Loans through XXXX XXXX. Upon graduating I was unable to repay the loans so I was forced to defer them. Eventually I began to make payments, around XXXX dollars a month. I have been paying the loans on time for over a year now and without warning they have now began taking an additional XXXX dollars out bringing my monthly payment to over XXXX dollars a month. When I called they told me it was because of added interest. When I tried to look into reducing my monthly amount they told me there was nothing they could do for me because I have cosigners. My cosigners are my grandparents, who are not able to help financially, nor would I expect them to, and my aunt who also is not able to help. They are unwilling to work with honest people who want to pay off their depts and continue to up the monthly payment without any type of warning."
7893,"I have been paying my XXXX/Navient student loans since 2007. At one point, I was in forbearance ( for approximately a year. ) I have recently seen reports of the failings of Navient, I 'd like to inquire about my situation in this matter. 

Thank you"
4139,I was misguided by a Navient account representative on repayment options for my student loan.
2757,"I called my federal student loan provider Great Lakes to confirm about item # XXXX : I 'm thinking of serving as a XXXX XXXX or XXXX volunteer and plan to request a deferment or forbearance on my Direct Loans. If I 'm not making payments during my service period, can I receive credit toward PSLF? 
The customer service agent ( I believe her name was XXXX ) stated to me that I would not be able to received credits PSLF, even though under the federal government its stated otherwise. The agent stated that I would need to make 12 separate payments and that I am not able to make the lump slums payment and received the credit for PSLF. 
I am extremely frustrated because, I am a hard working student working to keep up with my student loans and more importantly be smart with payment in order to receive PSLF credits during my services as an XXXX volunteer. I would like for Great Lakes to invest in honest and fair business practices. I do not think this institution should be acting as private money-hungry bank center. I also believe, the federal government needs to do a better job making sure that these private sector they partner with are honest and are in compliance with federal regulations. I am going to call them again with an attorney on the other line to process this request. It 's unfortunate that hard working citizens of this country have to go this far to get a fair treatment."
3146,"I am trying to resolve a derogatory statement on my credit report, but Navient can not seem to locate my account, nor provide a reason as to why they are still reporting on my account. 

I do not understand how they can report on the account without knowing who they are reporting against."
7056,"I applied for and was approved for a forebearance through Navient was paid for on XXXX XXXX, and on XXXX XXXX I began getting harassing phone calls and emails about a late payment because they had not correctly processed the forebearance, only taken my money."
212,"I borrowed money in the form of "" Parent Plus '' loans through the Federal government and Great Lakes for my son 's college tuition since the school said he did not qualify for loans based on his own merit. After graduating five years later, my son ( technically I ) had accumulated over XXXX in loans and interest spread out among XXXX different "" government backed '' lenders who all wanted separate payments or I could consolidate the loans on an income based plan which would be a smaller payment my son would have to make through me since he still did not qualify to hold the loans himself. Maybe in the fine print somewhere on page XXXX of the novel of a loan agreement it said that the loan would no longer be a true school loan with all the low interest benefits, but I did not know that at the time of refinancing. Now we are paying 8 percent interest on a modified government backed loan. How is that justifiable morally. The price of his education at the Colorado XXXX XXXX XXXX did n't yield an income representative of the hugely inflated cost he is paying and to add insult to injury, my lower income makes it impossible for me to refinance the loan with a lower interest rate."
8443,"I have tried multiple times to work out a satisfactory arrangement for payments with Navient to prevent XXXX of my student loans from going in to collections. When I first took out these loans myself, I was not adequately informed nor understood all the terms, except the XXXX XXXX telling me to sign so I could start school. 

No matter how many options or managers or customer service staff I have talked to from Navient, they were not able to get me in to a program or lower my payment so I could afford it after a drop in income, they even went as far as telling me to borrow money from friends, or even more money from my parents to pay them. Even suggesting I use credit cards for the payments, which would only serve to push me further In to debt and make it harder for me to overcome it, going further in to debt to pay a debt is not a sensible or acceptable answer to a customer, or for a creditor to even suggest. 

I now have XXXX loan in default/charge off and another heading there, Navient has been completely unhelpful, has refused to work with me to a satisfactory conclusion for BOTH parties, not just them."
2382,"In Citibank 's reply to my previous complaint, case number XXXX, they state : We have reviewed your account regarding your concerns with information Citibank reported to the credit bureaus about your student loan. Our review shows that your loan XXXX, a Federal Consolidation Loan, was sold to XXXX XXXX in XXXX 2011. As we have previously informed you, the information that we have reported to the credit bureaus is for the period that your loans were serviced by Citibank. We have reported the payment history for your loan as well as the fact that it was sold. The information Citibank has reported is accurate and will remain on your credit report for a period of up to seven ( 7 ) years from the last date of activity in accordance with the requirements of the Fair Credit Reporting Act ( FCRA ). 

The sections of the FCRA that you have referenced in your letter to the CFPB are not applicable in this instance, and therefore, we are unable to delete our reporting of your student loan. 

Citibank is failing to recognize it does apply because it 's a sold account and I was never notified in writing under FCRA 's 623 a 7. ( 7 ) Negative Information ( A ) Notice to Consumer Required ( i ) In general. If any financial institution that extends credit and regularly and in the ordinary course of business furnishes information to a consumer reporting agency described in section 603 ( p ) furnishes negative information to such an agency regarding credit extended to a customer, the financial institution shall provide a notice of such furnishing of negative information, in writing, to the customer. 

Time of Notice ( i ) In general. The notice required under subparagraph ( A ) shall be provided to the customer prior to, or no later than 30 days after, furnishing the negative information to a consumer reporting agency described in section 603 ( p ). 

FCRA Section 623 of the Fair Credit Reporting Act, Appendix A to Part 660, Title 16, Code of Federal Regulations, and the Consumer Data Industry Association 's Credit Reporting Resource Guide. Page XXXX of the Guide explains that "" Both credit grantors and consumers depend upon consumer reporting agencies to acquire and maintain accurate credit histories. '' Page XXXX provides that accounts may be deleted if the account has been forwarded or sold to another agency, if the account was cancelled and returned to the original creditor, if the account was reported in error, or if the account has been confirmed as fraudulent."
9541,"NES is attempting to collect on loans that were previously deleted from my account. I received notification from all XXXX credit bureaus that the XXXX negative items were removed from my credit report and would not be placed on my credit again. They claim that XXXX XXXX XXXX owns this debt but I never signed any paperwork with them and never showed how they own and if they have the rights to collect on this account. I want the XXXX loans to be off my credit report for good. I never signed any agreements with XXXX XXXX XXXX and they have submitted any proof the own the rights to the loans. I asked XXXX for this information twice but they decided to send the XXXX loans to a collection law firm, it is illegal for XXXX XXXX XXXX or XXXX to keep sending these loans to a collection agency after the loans were removed from my credit report 3 weeks ago. They are ruining my credit and I will have to get a FDCPA to put a stop this once and for all. 


Consent to publish the description of what happened? Consent provided My loan is Non-federal student loan ( Private, alternative, other student loan ) Issue Dealing with my lender or servicer : Do n't agree with fees charged Desired resolution [ Edit ] What do you think would be a fair resolution to your issue? 
I want all of the negative credit marks to be removed from my credit report because they do not have the right to collect on the loan or can account for any information they received from XXXX about the loans. The loans are not collectible."
1002,"My Complaint is not about the XXXX. My compliant is about NelNet and what happened before the default. As I review my statement on NelNet 's website, dated XXXX/XXXX/XXXX, it was showing my correct address. I know for a fact Nelnet had my phone number and email correct, as I have received both phone calls and emails from them. When I logged into NelNet today ( XXXX/XXXX/XXXX ) I found out that my loan was a {$0.00} balance. I then called the XXXX, who informed me that they had the following address and phone number, XXXX XXXX XXXX, XXXX, OH and phone number of XXXX. My loans were sent to the XXXX in default status. The woman at XXXX XXXX XXXX told me that I have XXXX to 90 days before I am assessed a penalty fee. I called on day XXXX. Had I not called today, l would have been charged a 25 % penalty fee for default, all because I could n't afford my payments. NelNet REFUSED to work with me, and they changed my contact information so that XXXX could not send me letters. NelNet updated my account with false information in regards to my address and phone number, with malicious intent. This caused the XXXX to not be able to contact me and work with me. I feel that NelNet needs to pay my entire student loan balance as I would have been charged over {$13000.00} in penalty fee for defaulting on this loan."
8641,"Abusive harassment over the phone. 
Online access to account wo n't work after reset."
9335,"In XX/XX/2007 I was a XXXX and make my way into the world. I started looking for schools to continue my education and ensure a healthy and stable future. 

My search abrubtly ended when I was called by a recruiter from XXXX XXXX XXXX. She spoke with a manner that invited and ensured me of a successful future of my dreams. 

Needless to say I 'm sure she talked a lot of XXXX year old XXXX young men into committing to what has been the biggest mistake of my life. 

The admissions process alone was worse than buying a car with the amount of lectures and pushy tactics, not to mention the mountains of paperwork they pushed onto me. 

I lasted a year before the lack of education finally took hold. The instructors ( definitely not professors ), could hardly XXXX, much less teach XXXX XXXX XXXX. 

Upon the utter dissapointment of leaving without even a certificate of any sort, and ontop of the fact all of the credits earned were worthless to other accredited institutions, I had learned just how much a single year at XXXX cost .... over {$27000.00}. 

It is now almost a decade later and I owe a little over {$13000.00}. This means nothing to XXXX XXXX or whoever else has interst in these loans because they harass every hour they are allowed, every day they are allowed. They have no reasonable customer service and the negotiations I have attempted to make have been laughable at best on either side. 

I sincerely hope action is taken to prevent these types of institutions from preying on the youth of this country, by selling dreams they can not make and promises they can not keep. 

I also hope thay many learn from these types of experiences so that one day, if they are faced with a similar situation, they can identify it and save themselves from over a decades worth of headaches. 

Who would 've thought that pursuing the American Dream could turn out to be such a nightmare. 

Sincerely, XXXX"
1688,"I use Nelnet as my provider i switched to the repaye in XXXX XXXX ofcourse at that time the online application requested that I have called and spoken to them multiple times. First off they always tell you no matter what the call is the need 2-5 days to process. second of all they never reach back out to you when they say they will. I called maybe 50 times regarding my application. to confirm everything was correct and was always told everything was correct. I was also told what my payment would be. my husband and I sent in applications at exact same time his was processed. where mine due to many many errors on their end including putting my husband application instead of my own into my account told me they could not process my account so i had to send in paychecks. to make a very long story short they refuse now to calculate my payments based on my agi bc they have my paychecks per their request and demanding I had to submit them and also telling me multiple times not to send in my most update my most updated taxes. In the end they tried to blame me for the fact that they put my husband application into my account. which for one, even if my husband faxed in his application XXXX times why would they put it into my account. secondly, as if i could be on their end and scan it into my account. this complaint is based on the principal that i tried to avoid mistakes and have my application processed in the the fastest matter i could, and called and tried to be patient and most effective clearly their staff is not trained to know how to handle any situation or even give out the correct advice. even the solutions center was rude to me when speaking to him and kept telling me i put my husband application into my own account, the after researching more "" suddenly '' found something he missed before that was their fault. make a long story short after prob 10 hours total phone with them and XXXX calls later they still messed up, do n't offer any solution, and now can not calculate my payment based on my AGI until i do my XXXX taxes next year!!!!"
1244,"Where do I start? My family decided to get a financial advisor to help clean our credit, and what he found had me beside myself. I got a private parent plus loan with my mom in XX/XX/XXXX ; the loan ballooned from {$6600.00} to {$15000.00}. In XX/XX/XXXX my mother filed bankruptcy, at the time my family and I was dealing with the economic crisis. During this time XXXX XXXX reps. called me constantly although I explained to them my mother was in bankruptcy chXXXX, they would even call me on Sunday mornings, I could n't pay them since I was in school so they would make me call my mom on 3-way so that I could ask her to help me pay the loan or that it would default on my credit, ( come to find out they would ask me to call my mom on 3 way because they legally could n't contact her ). Although my dad handled the bankruptcy, my mother and I did n't really understand the laws about bankruptcy other than creditors was n't supposed to call. During XX/XX/XXXX and XX/XX/XXXX they would call and threaten me with default and bringing me to court. The first call that gave a turning point was when a rep. from Navient called me and said my loan had been switch over to them from XXXX XXXX and if I do n't pay that day they would default the loan the day after. So I paid. I 've been harassed by Navient since my mom filed bankruptcy since XXXX. Fast forward to now, XXXX days ago I found out from my our financial advisor that the loan was included in the bankruptcy and discharged through bankruptcy chXXXX giving the loan a zero balance on my mom 's credit report. However XXXX XXXX was n't satisfied with the bankruptcy payments, so they compromised a plan to get {$15000.00} from me on {$6600.00} loan that was paid in bankruptcy. I have XXXX account numbers XXXX from XXXX and XXXX from navient. What XXXX XXXX did was transfer my moms private parent plus loan to navient as a federal loan so that they could have ground to collect payment. Because I made a payment because the rep. said the loan would default, it sent my account into repayment status. I HAVE THE DOCUMENTS WHERE MY FINANCIAL ADVISOR SHOWED ME THAT THE LOAN WAS PAID IN BANKRUPTCY COURT IN FRONT OF A JUDGE!!!! They had me paying on the loan that has already deemed paid for. They could n't make me pay it as a private loan because it was discharged in bankruptcy court, that 's why it was transferred to Navient as a federal loan so that they could still collect. When I told them I was n't working and had no money they said my husband had to pay for the loan, this can be proven since XXXX % if not all the payments was paid with my husbands debit or credit card. Here are my XXXX account number XXXX XXXX Private XXXX Navient Federal XXXX both of these accounts are for XXXX loan. Not only do I have to get a lawyer to right this wrong, but now my information is in XXXX, my social security number and all my personal information in a country that has no right to abide by our laws in the US. 
Since I found out this information I have not been able to sleep, I 'm agree and hurt. I remember the days and nights that they would call me with threats, nights my husband and I went without utilities and food just so that my loan would not default. It 's just hurtful how this company which is supposed to be trusted take advantage of students who already cant afford school."
8372,"I had my {$490.00} payment on auto withdrawal from my account every month on the XXXX. Unfortunately, this setup only lasts for one year increments for some reason. I called Navient last month to tell them to keep my payments on the XXXX of every month because that worked for me. I just happened to check my bank account this morning and saw the payment came out on the XXXX instead. It 's my understanding that it 's illegal to withdraw an unauthorized debit from an account. I called Navient and they said they would n't have done that and will be reviewing the tapes and get back to me. I know for a fact I asked to keep my payments on the XXXX of every month because that works for me. Now I need to find another way to make rent this month because my NEXT paycheck should be going towards my student loans."
5096,I recently consolidated my student loans with another bank/loan servicer. The loans after a lot of time in between were finially listed as paid in full. However there is a credit attached to my previous account. That credit has been on my account for well over 30 days and I believe American Education Services is purposely holding onto my credit as a way of punishment for leaving their company and add extra unnecessary interest charges to my new loan. I believe their response time to refunding this credit to me or my new lender is completely unethical and want this credited to me or my new loan ASAP
950,Could not utilize The Public Service Loan Forgiveness ( PSLF ) Program because I made to many loan payments and would need to restart my loan payments
5412,"Navient sold my loans to XXXX, and when I worked with them, and set up a payment plan in XXXX, I was told it was all of my private loans. It turns out that Navient held onto some of my private loans and is placing me in default for not making payments on them. This is on top of them refusing to communicate with me via email. On the phone they pressure me into payment plans, I refuse to negotiate on the phone because of the undue pressure and lack of opportunity to weigh my options."
5580,"Student loan repayment initiated approximately 20 years ago, went into default, payments began XXXX 2010 with beginning balance of {$11000.00}. Since then $ {$4400.00} has gone toward interest, {$2600.00} towards principal with an outstanding balance of {$9400.00} on an 8.25 % fixed loan with monthly payments in the amount of {$120.00}. Loan is through ACS Borrower. We have reached out to ACS with no success in understanding their calculations. School was XXXX XXXX XXXX, XXXX XXXX TX"
4838,I was made aware today that MOHELA has been calling family members for the past week looking for me. They were told repeatedly that I do not live there but still continued to harass him. I spoke with them today and they said I must have provided them with the number but this is false and they did not take the matter seriously.
4368,"My Fed Loan Servicing as consistently mishandled my student loans since taking over my student loan process. In the last year I have had the following issues with the service provider. I believe that this service provider lacks accountability and oversight. The representatives do not take ownership for the lack of follow through and do not know the student loan process well. 

1. ( Current Issue ) I submitted a REPAYE request online and selected a one month forbearance during the time that my loan is being processed. I am currently making payments towards the Public Service Forgiveness program and will like to make continuous payments in order to avoid extending my payment length further. It has been over a month and my application has not been processed. I have made my {$5.00} payment and have received notice that my next month 's bill will be over {$1100.00} which I can not afford because the service provider has not processed my loan. 
2. For almost a year the # of qualifying payments for my Direct Sub/UnSub Loans have had different amounts of qualifying payments for public service forgiveness. I asked the servicer to reconcile these numbers because the loans were consolidated at the same time. The request had to be submitted multiple times. Finally the # was reconciled and it was reconciled to the lowest # of payments. Also, the servicer sent me another person 's loan information in the process which disclosed their personal information."
1804,"The loan servicer Federal Loan Servicing is the most incompetent company I have ever worked with. They have consistently given me the wrong information over the phone, did not send me important information when I was denied XXXX program, delayed communication, suggested that I let my account go delinquent while they processed information, and the list goes on! Their customer service providers gave half-information, told me to wait for weeks, and then I was forced to pay higher than I should have payments due to their incompetence. I want to change loan servicers. Please tell me how! And get rid of Fed Loan Servicing. They are part of the student loan problem! Not the solution!!!!!"
1544,"Additional payments being made were applied to future interest payments not the principal. I made a {$460.00} payment on XXXX/XXXX/XXXX and then {$500.00} payment on XXXX/XXXX/XXXX and then {$500.00} on XXXX/XXXX/XXXX ( ive included payment history information for the last six months below ). When this was noticed I called Navient customer service and they said the interest was being applied "" all wrong '' and promised to correct the issue and apply the extra payments I made to the principal. They were supposed to have it complete within 10 business days and mail a letter to confirm what action had been taken. No letter was sent. I called back on XXXX/XXXX/XXXX and they are trying to say the extra payments made went to interest because there were 31 days in that month not 30. Then they said that the 13 day lag in the payment ( XX/XX/XXXX payment made on XX/XX/XXXX ) caused an additional {$500.00} dollars in interest to accrue. We are making all the minimum payments and then some, and they are incorrectly applying payments and telling me {$500.00} dollars additional interest accrues in 13 days? I want them to fix the account and apply the additional payments to principle like I asked and like they said they would a month ago. 

Further, it is impossible to get a detailed printout or statement on the account from the website. We can not provide the special instructions on the website to apply extra money to the principal. I am trying to make payments to have this 25 year curse paid off in 5 and save money in interest. They are trying to take advantage of us for doing so and making it so they get the 25 years of interest in the 5 I 'm going to pay this off. 

Looking through the small print, it says in order for this not to happen we have to mail in a check with a letter each month specifying the action to take. How many people are making extra payments not knowing they are just paying Navient 's interest ahead of time instead of principal. This practice is stealing money from people. 



Date Description Principal Interest Fees Total XXXX/XXXX/XXXX Payment - {$150.00} - {$300.00} {$0.00} - {$460.00} XXXX/XXXX/XXXX Payment - {$270.00} - {$190.00} {$0.00} - {$460.00} XXXX/XXXX/XXXX Payment - {$330.00} - {$160.00} {$0.00} - {$500.00} XXXX/XXXX/XXXX Payment {$0.00} - {$500.00} {$0.00} - {$500.00} XXXX/XXXX/XXXX Payment - {$130.00} - {$330.00} {$0.00} - {$460.00} XXXX/XXXX/XXXX Payment - {$96.00} - {$370.00} {$0.00} - {$460.00} XXXX/XXXX/XXXX Payment - {$130.00} - {$330.00} {$0.00} - {$460.00}"
1348,"There should be no late payments, as I set my loan to be deferred until after graduation. Also, it seems as though there are inaccuracies within the loan itself."
3438,"On several credit reports it is noted that I was 60 days late on my Federal Student Loan payments in XXXX of 2014 - however, during this time I was a member of XXXX and on a loan deferment program. I 'd like to have the late payments on my Federal Student Loans erased."
8881,"I am the XXXX y/o father of a student who graduated from college in XXXX. I co-signed for many of the loans. Some of the loans have been paid off and others are receiving payments. Navient is XXXX such creditor. The XXXX loans with Navient originated with XXXX XXXX. Due to our financial difficulties XXXX XXXX agreed, by phone, that we would be able to reduce our payments to {$300.00} per month for all XXXX. 
We have since filed bankruptcy and are living on Social Security. Our attorney filed a Cease and Desist order on Navient. On the XXXX of XXXX XXXX I was told at XXXX hrs by Navient representative XXXX ( XXXX XXXX ) that there were programs that Navient could tell me about that would help me with the loan but first we ( my wife and I ) "" can only take advantage of reduced monthly payments and other assistance only if we void the Cease and Desist Order. '' When pressed for information Navient would not reply. I ended the conversation and continued to make the payments. 
Today, the XXXX of XXXX at XXXX hours I received another call from Navient saying that the caller was in a special department and could help me. I was informed they had only so much time available to help me with a proposal to reduce the balance and that my request for a written proposal would probably result in the time to make a decision expiring. With no chance of receiving hard copy of any loan information proposal, I hung up."
3045,"I have XXXX loans handled by Navient. When I submitted an income driven repayment application in XX/XX/XXXX, they acknowledged that they had received it. ( XXXX, which has another loan of mine, acknowledged it, too, and I had not issues with them. ) However, they continued to bill me for a huge amount of money saying that the paperwork was being "" processed. '' Eventually, I was required to submit additional information that I had already submitted with a subsequent delay until a time came when I just stayed on the phone with them for over an hour making them figure it out. They apologized and said that I owed them nothing. However, they apparently were accruing late fees that they did n't tell me about and now are saying that I Have to pay more than {$300.00} in late fees, some of which they claim were on my account from XX/XX/XXXX when I was in XXXX school full time and had a deferral. They will not help me on the phone other than to say they will "" review '' it. They are charging me more than double what XXXX is on my current income driven payment plan, even though my loan amount is half at Navient. I feel like they are purposefully engaging in unethical activity in order to try to get more money out of me than is fair. I am perfectly willing to pay the money I owe and do n't even care that my monthly payment is higher at Navient than at XXXX. What I care about is that they are unfairly penalizing me for issues that are their fault not mine. They have been uniformly difficult to deal with and have had "" hidden costs '' that feel like they are trying to trick me into paying more than I should."
9860,"After repeated communication that I was unable to pay for my student loans. I received several calls in one day from Sallie Mae. The most recent call at XXXX on XXXX XXXX, was from a rep. who yelled at me and threatened to add additional delinquency fees."
4033,"I cant repay this I asked for lower payments, when filing for this I was told something by the school which ended up being different I filed Bankruptcy and that was supposed to help but really did not I have tried to work more and XXXX jobs with no luck. Can you help??"
6156,"My name is XXXX XXXX New York,XXXX Email : XXXX Phone : XXXX I had a student loan since XXXX, XXXX sold the loan to another company NAVENT in XXXX. 
Now they rise the amount {$69.00} to {$99.00} Never receive a previous notification. They said I sign 2 years ago the authorization for this rise ( No document received for this, and I never signed this authorization ). 
Now they offer me a new deal, pay some like {$45.00} per 1 year and after paid {$190.00}. 
My salary is only XXXX per hour, I can not afford this increase. 
Why do I need to sign a new deal with new conditions and increase the interest. 
XXXX Account was XXXX NAVENT Account is XXXX. 
What can I do to prevent this increase. 
When I tried to call NAVENT, I needed to wait for more than 20 minutes. 
Please can someone in your organization help me for this abuse."
6817,"I began my XXXX studies in XXXX at XXXX XXXX University. I took out a private loan in order to continue my studies. I was unfamiliar with student loans at the time, and my parents were not able to pay for my schooling. I took out this private loan with the assistance of my financial aid counselor at XXXX, with my father as the co signer. I graduated XXXX as an XXXX in XXXX XXXX. I began XXXX school at XXXX in XXXX XXXX. I began getting phone calls from American Education Services, requesting that I make payments. I explained that I was attending XXXX school, and was unable to make the payments they requested. I graduated with my XXXX XX/XX/XXXX, and began working in XXXX of XXXX. I have not been able to make the large payments requested by AES because I came out of college with nothing, moved in with my parents and made small payments. At one point I was asked to make payments multiple hundreds of dollars a month, which I was and, I am still unable to make. At this time, my loan has become "" severely delinquent '' and I am being asked to make a one time payment of {$54000.00}. I have been told by the collection agency ( XXXX XXXX XXXX ) that I no longer have the option to make monthly payments because of my severe delinquency. My father is also being harassed with phone calls, and being threatened by these representatives. I have offered to make small payments now that I am a bit more financially stable, but the collection agency stated that due to my continued delinquency, I am no longer eligible to make monthly payments. The collection agency has advised my father and/or myself to take out a second mortgage on my parents home to make the loan payment. At this point, I feel helpless because I have no way of getting that kind of money, and according to the collection agency, I have no other options at this time."
3010,I Was working and going to school things got tough had to move and end school didnt want to end school but had to due to financially problems did n't have enough money to pay off my loan and still is looking for work until this day.
5592,My servicer will not give me a deferment or income based repayment plan. They tell me my co-signer can pay it. Why would I do that? I just need a lower payment.
2500,"Im so tired of going back and forth. Someone is garnishing my social security. the notice said the funds are going to navient. I have XXXX loans that are defaulted. They are not with XXXX. I logged into the website and I see XXXX with XXXX, yet my garnishment states its going to navient. XXXX said they re not garnishing my check but someone is. Well navient called me XX/XX/XXXX to tell me I was 21 days past due and owed XXXX payment for my total loan of XXXX. I called them 2 months ago and left messages and I also applied for IBR over 30 days ago. She said my loan was 21 days past due and how did I want to make that payment. And then guess what after 14 years of deferement and forbearance just when I thought that was over they offered it to me again and never discussed my IBR application which I sent all the info in and have not heard anything. I am sure they could care less about helping me now after 14 years as they are getting my social security. so now I am in deferrment again and i am trying to get it all figured out and then they offer no help at all. they did not even have record of my IBR application that I got an email stating they had received. LOL"
1473,"Conserv, the organization servicing the DOE loan I took out for my daughter 's college education, had agreed, in writing, to a revised monthly payment of {$260.00}. I authorized automatic deduction for my bank account and the payments were deducted for XX/XX/XXXX, XX/XX/XXXX, XX/XX/XXXX, and XX/XX/XXXX. No payment was deducted for XX/XX/XXXX, and when I tries to find out why, I got the run-around, among other things, being referred to a number of different persons who did not know what was going on. When I finally do reach someone with the correct information, I was informed that Conserv had decided to increase the monthly payment to {$300.00}. I had received no correspondence to this effect nor have I received any written justification as to why the payment was increased. Now, they are claiming that I am delinquent on my XX/XX/XXXX payment. They had the authorization to deduct the agree-upon {$260.00}, but chose not to. I suggest that both Conserv 's arbitrary increase of the monthly payment and their classification of the loan as delinquent are improper, and their collection practices should be investigated."
5836,"They continue to apply the loan payment incorrectly despite specific directions on the check and multiple contacts and notes on the file with customer service. This has made it past due on multiple occasions. The check clearly states to "" apply excess to loan x '' as it is our plan to put even a little extra money to help pay it off early. Yet they continue to apply the entire amount to loan x making us "" delinquent '' on the other accounts. I have spoken with multiple representatives who have verified that they understand what it means to apply excess to loan x. As this has necessitated calling in multiple times this brings me to another concern, there is no easy way to speak to a representative. You can not push XXXX, but instead have to listen as they detail that the payment is late and would you like to make a payment. The truth is the payment is not late and this call is to remedy the mistake made by the company and yet I can not speak with a representative until over 5 minutes later. For those of us who work ( especially multiple jobs ) there is not always time to spend 5 minutes going through an automated system and then explain the situation to a representative who says they will do what they can, but that this is how the system works. The system needs to be remedied so that simple directions can be followed on the written checks and applied correctly, making it no longer necessary for multiple calls by the consumer. Further this even helps the company as they do not have to call or email about delinquent accounts that are actually not delinquent."
6532,This company was unwilling to work with me when I was unemployed and They finally put me on an interest only payment plan when I asked to get my payment lowers. THey left. XXXX this plan for years and never offered me something better until recently. I filed letters with the bbb and contacted then numerous times. Everytime I got a different story and no one could give me correct information. Because of their lack of support my private loans have tripled the amount of what I borrowed. They told me at one point I could consolidate my loans to later be told I would have to consolidate them with another company as they no longer consolidate private loans. My interest rate on my private loans is 10 % on each theee loans. When I asked them for information on who I could consolidate with they kept giving me information for federal loans not private loans.
3631,"I make my routine monthly student loan payments via automatic payment- I have XXXX loans, XXXX subsidized and XXXX unsubsidized. On XXXX XXXX, 2016, I made an extra payment which I wanted to go to XXXX loan only and as a principal only payment. Navient did not have any means on its website to provide these directions, so I immediately sent an email with the instructions. A few days later it was not made, so I sent a follow-up email with further instructions. Today, because it was not corrected, I called to make the change. The CSR with whom I spoke said that I could not make a principal only payment. That sounds inaccurate and illegal."
8423,"Younomics ( University Accounting Services ), a private loan servicing company, has reported my student loan in default for over 12 months. I am XXXX and have requested a deferment from the company. The company will not state the reason why it will not defer my loan. I did not originally receive the loan from Younomics and I suppose the loan was sold them for servicing. The default is hurting my credit and ruining my chances to purchase a car, home and other essentials. The company has harassed me on several occasions with threatening phone calls and letters. I have disputed the matter with my credit report, stating I 'm in-school and should be shown as "" payment deferred '' however, the company has refused to indicate why I can not receive a deferment or other deferred payment options."
3685,"I was shocked when I reviewed my credit report and found several late payments on my student loans with the dates below : 180 days past due as of XXXX 2013 150 days past due as of XXXX 2013 120 days past due as of XXXX 2013 90 days past due as of XXXX 2013 I am not sure how this happened, I believe that I had made my payments to you when I received my statements. My only thought is that this was supposed to be in deferment and it did not get processed correctly or the payments I sent in were not registered."
3129,"My husband and I consolidated our student loans and went into default again. He has a garnishment on his wages that total {$190.00} per week. I called Pipneer Recovery to see what we can do to get out of this debt quicker. The woman told me we could pay {$540.00} per month MORE and we would be out in 25 years. That is {$1400.00} per month. I want to know my interest rate and she could not provide me that information. I asked her if we left the garnishment to pay the loan off when would it be paid? She said it would never be paid off. 
Is this true? It is financially hurting to have that much taken out of his check to learn he will never pay it off. Help please"
3887,"Navient had been emailing about needing to consolidate my loans. In doing so, the income based payments were a huge amount of money I could never afford and I still do not even have an increase in pay from prior to graduation. I am still working on a new position now that I have my degree. Because I could not pay the insane amount requested, I was forced into a regular repayment plan. Now I will not be able to have my loans forgiven after I have been with my employer for 10 years. Extremely frustrating and no responses to emails for assistance."
8278,"I requested a copy of my credit report and found a court judgement from SLM Private Credit. I do n't know what this debt is for, and the judgement was placed in XXXX Court in XXXX which does n't make sense since I have lived in XXXX for the last XXXX years. I sent several debt validation letters to both Sallie Mae and XXXX to try to figure out what this is and if it was one of my school loans being serviced by both companies and I have yet to receive a response. I 've tried to obtain these records for about four months now and I need help because it is effecting my ability to get a job."
9316,My wages are being garnished from Performant Recovery. They will not work with me or return phone calls about a payment plan. I have talked to at least 5 different people and they all tell me something different.
2945,"I 'm a XXXX and XXXX. 
My student loan has been sold several times, most recently to Navient. The original amount borrowed was XXXX dollars. 
I graduated in XX/XX/2006 and have been paying XXXX per month since, without fail, and my balance is XXXX even though I 've paid XXXX already. 
When I questioned them I was told that my payments was only being applied to the interest which was compounded daily, but now a portion would be applied towards the principal too."
4157,"I did n't realize I was a victim of the Student Loan forgiveness Scam. I gave out my SSN # and credit card info. I 'll contact my bank to cancel the transaction may occur but what I do with the SSN # already gave out? Please see below info what have been exchanged over the email : Hey XXXX, Your file was approved yesterday & we submitting a request to put your loans on admin forbearance. It typically takes about 2-3 business days for it to be approved. They will no longer ask you for payments after the weekend. 

Best, On Wed, XX/XX/2016 at XXXX, XXXX XXXX XXXX wrote : XXXX, I still receiving email and phone call from Navient, when will I get the approval that it 's no longer from Navient but from the Income Driven Program of loan forgiveness that we were working on previously? 
From : XXXX XXXX XXXX Sent : Tuesday, XX/XX/2016 XXXX To : XXXXXXXXXXXX Subject : Contact Information - XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX, congratulations again on your approval for the loan forgiveness program! Friendly reminder to send in your Proof of Income to our processing department as soon as possible. Should you have any questions or concerns please do n't hesitate to contact me through phone or email. Best way is through email as I am usually always on the phone. Thank You! 

Please feel free to share my contact information with anyone that needs help with their federal or private student loans. We would love to help them qualify for a better program and possible loan forgiveness! 
XXXX - More Information about these programs White House Website : XXXX Ensuring That Student Loans are Affordable | The White House www.whitehouse.gov Ensuring That Student Loans are Affordable. download as pdf "" Let 's tell another XXXX students that when they graduate, they will be required to pay only XXXX ... 

Defaulted Consequences : XXXX Consequences of a Student Loan Default - FindLaw bankruptcy.findlaw.com A student loan default occurs when the borrower fails to stay current with the payments on their student loan. Delinquency begins the first day a borrower misses a XXXX - Online Account where you can view your loans XXXX National Student Loan Data System for Students www.nslds.ed.gov The National Student Loan Data System ( NSLDS ) is the U.S. Department of Education 's ( ED 's ) central database for student aid. NSLDS receives data from schools ... 
-Click financial aid review -Click Accept - '' Log in '' Username : XXXX PW : XXXX Please do not change the password as our processing department needs it to work on your file. 
Student Financial Services XXXX / Compliance Manager XXXXXXXXXXXX / XXXX EXT XXXX Student Financial Services Processing : XXXX / Fax : XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX, CA XXXX XXXX Hours of Operation : XXXX - XXXX ( PST )"
5458,"I actually have XXXX private loan and XXXX Stafford loan service through American Education Services. I am trying to pay above and beyond on the loans and they have messed up the form XXXX times. I have been in contact with them at least XXXX times this month. They have consistently gotten bank account information, amounts, etc. incorrect and have almost overdrafted XXXX my accounts several times. I do not believe it is unreasonable to not expect to sit on the phone every single night for hours to get this right. I am EXTREMELY happy with other service providers and only want to move my loans to these providers and not AES."
3093,"On XX/XX/2017, I received correspondence from Nelnet that I could apply for an income-driven repayment plan. On XX/XX/2017, I received correspondence from Nelnet, which stated : "" Your federal student loans are in their six-month grace period, so we 've placed your income-driven repayment request on hold. We will process your request once your grace period ends. '' When I logged into my account to make my first payment in XXXX, my application had not been processed as Nelnet had stated in the letter. I was unable to afford the {$830.00} amount that was due, and I informed Nelnet of my inability to pay and their error in failing to process my application. I was informed by Nelnet that my application was not processed because it was submitted too early -- in direct contradiction with their earlier correspondence to me -- and that I would have to reapply. I was told that the only manner in which I could avoid the {$830.00} payment was to request a forbearance. I had no choice, and I incurred thousands of dollars in interest charges due to my requested one-month forbearance while my second application for an income-driven plan was being processed. 

My application was accepted for Pay as You Earn repayment plan at the end of XXXX, and I made my first payment of {$150.00} at the end of XXXX. I also signed up for the AutoDebit option on the website. 

Today, I looked at my bank statement and saw that Nelnet had debited {$830.00} from my account on XX/XX/2017 ( the payment 's due date ), even though I was only obligated to pay {$150.00} under my repayment plan. I contacted Nelnet, and the representative told me -- after placing me on hold for 5 minutes -- that the {$830.00} figure was, in fact, the correct figure. I told him that could not be true, because such a figure represents nearly 30 % of my total income -- drastically over the 10 % of discretionary income that the payment is supposed to be capped at by law. After placing me on hold for another 5 minutes, I was transferred to another representative. That representative told me that the {$150.00} figure was, in fact, the figure that I was obligated to pay. He told me that it would take some time to fix the issue and that the Department of Education would not be able to refund my excess payment for 4 -6 weeks. 

There are two discrete issues here. 

First, Nelnet explicitly told me to apply for an income-driven plan and later explicitly told me that my application would be processed in due time. It was not processed, I was told that I was at fault for that failure, and I incurred thousands of dollars of interest charges because I necessitated a forbearance through no fault of my own. 

Second, Nelnet, through their AutoDebit service, debited an extra {$670.00} from my account in the month of XXXX. It is unreasonable to make such a mistake -- I am just starting my career ; I am engaged in XXXX ; I make a modest salary ; and I have expenses such as rent, food, and utilities that I can not afford now because of this gross error. Because of Nelnet 's negligence, I now am worried that I can not pay my rent, keep my utilities on, or afford food for the remainder of XXXX until my refund from the Department of Education is processed. 

Not only was Nelnet negligent, but their representative actively attempted to mislead me by stating that the {$830.00} figure was the correct amount. If it were not for my own diligence, they would have continued to charge me an excess {$670.00} every month, leading to my complete financial ruin. 

Thus, I have had nothing but problems with Nelnet. First, I incurred thousands of dollars of interest charges because I merely trusted their correspondence, which stated explicitly that my application would be processed. Second, they debited an excess {$670.00} from my account and actively tried to mislead me to believe that they were not in error."
8069,"My father ( recently deceased ) had co-signed for private law loans and had been repaying them. Navient apparently bought the loans from XXXX XXXX. I contacted Navient and let them know I could not make the payment my dad was making but that I wanted to pay and not go in default. I said I could provide them with paperwork showing my recent bankruptcy, my snap aid for food, my pay stubs, evidence of my single parenthood, evidence of my federal aid being in economic hardship forbarence and anything else they might need to determine my eligibility for lower payments. They were of no help. They would not offer even gradually increasing payments over time. It seems like they just want me to default!"
5884,"I responded to a promotional rate for refinancing student loans that I believe was a fraudulent offer, wasting considerable time. Other lenders have approved my application and I was shopping for a more competitive rate, that was offered by XXXX Citizens Bank declined a refinancing application for current student loans, stating insufficient income. What is significant is that I have an XXXX credit score, earned in excess of $ XXXX per year for the last three years, and $ XXXX for the last XXXX, and have virtually no debt outside of my mortgage ( {$1500.00}, and a {$500.00} car note ) and have been a bank customer for over a decade. All the loans are in repayment, and current. I would like CFPB to investigate, as this is either a fraudulent offer, or the bank is engaged in discriminatory practices as I am XXXX, and seeking a loan with a 5 year term."
5813,Co signed loan for nephew. He repeatedly fails to pay. XXXX had his employment and contact info but harass me daily with calls every 1/2 hr. How can they be forced to contact 1st signer and make repayment demands?
5394,Never was given an alternative to repay my loans in the beginning. Was forced to max out my forebearance. My loan amounts went from XXXX to over XXXX.
242,"I have been trying since 2015 to get navient corportation to update the credit bureaus showing my loan was paid in full early and they continue to report that I owe over 10,000.00 and that the payments are either unknown or report nothing to all XXXX bureaus."
1716,Issues where payments would not pull out of my bank account causing late fees. Also was not offered a income contingent plan. When I expressed interest in one the plan was more then my current payments.
6517,"Navient is calling my work. I have explictly told them I am not allowed to have calls at work and to not call me here. They have also sent numerous faxes to my work with my personal information for everyone to see, my full name, social, and birthday, and requesting my employment information without permission or subpoena."
3495,"I frequently email, call and respond to them trying to get an income based repayment plan but they have been no help to me at all. They put me in forebearance for 2 months and attached it to my credit report. Not to mention i left that college 2 months after enrollment and cancelled out my loan but they said they could n't help me being the school signed off as me being there. I never saw any pell grants on top of that."
569,"I have a student loan in which I have been done both consolidation and rehabilation but I defaulted again. My check was being garnished as well as my Federal Income taxes have been taken. I borrowed {$20000.00} to go to college. After defaulting on the consolildation it went up to XXXX after failing to comply with that going into default my student loan became {$39000.00}. I admit that I have not taken care of this matter as best I should have But I think my rights as a consumer is voliated when I am told by the Collecting Agency that payment that were taken by garnishment do n't really count as payment because I did not make any voluntarily payments But Van Ru has garnished by pay for over three years as well as my income taxes are being kept. I know that Van Ru is being investigated for charging outrageous interest on student loans. I know that over {$40000.00} have been paid by me either directly or taken through garnishments or taxes. I will like to know why I was told by Van Ru that there is nothing that I can do to ever come out of default with my student loans. I think that is a punishment which is to severe. I will like to know my true total that is owe to Federal Student Loan. I am trying to get out of default with my student loan, I think it is ridiculous to say that I still owe {$60000.00} in student loans when you look at my payments I have paid well over the {$20000.00}. that I have borrowed originally. I have signed up for student loan forgiveness programs and paid but I was told that I do not qualify for any programs to come out of default. There are student loans forgiveness program that are out taken consumers money..When they do not have the ability to help you. But they are charging these outrageous fees. They tell you that it is a money back guarantee. I paid an agency that promised to assist me student loan forgiveness and they just took my money. I understand that I allowed my loans to go into default. But to take my through garnishment and taxes and tell me that the payment are going towards fee charged by the agency and interest. But yet no even making a dint in the principal which is about three time what I have borrowed. How many times am I going to pay {$20000.00} that I originally borrowed. This is wrong on so many level. It is inhumane."
5037,"I lost my job early last year XX/XX/2016 because I was in and out of the hospital because of XXXX, getting XXXX, and battling my XXXX. I called Navient because I had troubles making payments. The Representative told me he put my account in a non collectible status and to call back when I could make payments. Never once did I receive a letter, but month 3 of not making payments I got a call saying that my account was in collections. My credit score took a very bad hit. I told the manager on the phone that I want a record of the first call and she said I had to get a subpoena. I want that collection to be removed from my credit score because I was following their instructions."
579,"Two years after I thought I paid off my student loan Navient contacted me, without introduction, asking me to pay off my student loan. What loan, I thought, they I have another loan I was unaware of? The long and short, after six months of hounding me, along with the XXXX, ( not their fault ) they finally certified the loan "" paid-in-full. '' However, the experience was a big pain : calls, letters, more calls, more letters, more calls_ususally a call center in the XXXX. Talking to them was like talking to a wall. I kept asking for an "" amortization schedule '' to no avail, just a useless list of how the money was disbursed. Finally I spoke to an some specialist "" adviser '' with them. I insisted I would not pay anything without an "" amortization schedule. '' But, he said, that will take a lot of time. That 's when they "" forgave '' the loan. They are the worst. Now I 'm concerned that all these years they may have mishandled my loan without my knowing."
4988,"A company called "" account control technologies '' ( XXXX ) XXXX keeps calling me about a student loan in collections for a borrower with whom I have no relationship. This is a loan for which I did not sign anything. The borrower listed me as a reference ( without my permission or without notifying me ), and the company "" Account Control Technologies '' is calling me using phone numbers that I provided to the loan company XXXX XXXX for ANOTHER, UNRELATED account. Its not right for them to call me over and over again about a loan that I have absolutely no legal relationship to and when I asked them to stop calling me a few weeks ago, they called again today ( twice ) on all of my phone numbers. Today, I asked to speak to a manager, and he told me that not only will they continue to call me but they "" legally '' can refuse to provide me a copy of the loan documentation where my name appears. This is harassment. I have no relationship to this loan and I never consented to be any sort of "" reference. '' The company whose loan they are collecting on ( XXXX XXXX ) did not obtain any signatures from me about being a "" reference ''. If it was included on a form by the borrower, IT WAS DONE WITHOUT MY KNOWLEDGE AND WITHOUT MY CONSENT. This should be illegal."
4219,"I was taken to collections because of a federal student loan. All communication was being sent to my freshman year dorm room for over 6 years before being contacted by a collections agency, though my cell phone number was provided as part of my application. I was never contacted by phone. This affected my credit substantially, and I now I have to pay additional interest and fees."
7804,"After trying multiple times, I can not get my interest lowered."
4179,"I finished XXXX school XX/XX/1998 with XXXX in student loan debt. I was told by Navient XXXX then XXXX XXXX ) that I was ineligible for IBR and would have to put the loans in forebearance during my training. When I finished my training, my loans had ballooned to almost XXXX. Payments were then being allocated strangely to future interest and when I called they could not explain this. These people are criminals."
3553,"I called student fed loan servicing to reinstate payments after I was no longer going to school So I could get them paid off faster. They had me fill out a form to wave my forbearance rights and I sent that in. My payments resumed for a month or two and then stopped again in XXXX. 

I called student fed loan servicing on XXXX XXXX to ask why my payments were not being deducted again. They told me I would need to submit a request again to get them reinstated but they would resume for XXXX. 

I called XXXX XXXX, XXXX to ask why it still shows that XXXX my loan will be in forbearance. She told me that it would be in forbearance until XXXX. She said she could submit another request to have it go into repayment but then she said my original paperwork that I filled out months ago no longer is valid because I submitted another request on XXXX XXXX for the same thing, to get my payments reinstated. During all of this I am incurring interest and not able to get FedLoanServicing to take payment. 
The notion that a representative had me put in a second request that voided the first request for the same thing is silly to me and I feel I am getting the run around. In addition I just realized the XXXX payments they did deduct in XXXX and XXXX were for interest only."
8841,I have been repaying Students Loans to XXXX XXXX and now Navient for the past few years and have been a victim of the exact things they are now being sued by the federal government for. I was never given different options of repayments and they always encouraged me to take a forbearance during my times of financial hardship.
5609,"I received a 2 % percent raise at my job and my husband 's received an annual raise as well. Because of the increase in our income, we were denied a payment plan through Navient because we have disposable income ( {$300.00} a month ). We recently purchased a house so that we could invest in our future and move out of an apartment and were told that, regardless of our monthly rent payment becoming almost doubling for our mortgage, I was still told that they could n't help me lower my payment ( which equates to half of our mortgage ). The suggested that I have a bank buy out my loans and renegotiate my terms with them, which I have looked into. Most banks that I looked at had higher interest rates than my already high ones through Navient which seemed like a dead end to me. I was not asking for loan forgiveness, but simply to lower my payment so that we could have money each month both to save and to use for unexpected expenses."
2645,"Nearly ten years ago, the Public Service Loan Forgiveness plan started. As a professor at a public college since XXXX, with crushing student loan debt, I was thrilled to hear about the program. My student loans were nearly triple the value of my gross annual salary at the time, so I was interested to hear more about it. Each time I inquired about it, particularly to find out what my monthly payments would be, I was told that there were no estimated costs and that I just needed to switch to the Income Based Repayment ( IBR ) plan to find out. With a low salary and many debts, I was afraid to switch from my 30-year monthly payment plan to some unknown dollar amount. So I waited three years before I bit the bullet, still with no estimate of what the payments would be. Fortunately, my monthly payments were reduced by nearly {$100.00} a month on the IBR plan. Unfortunately, I had lost 3 years of loan forgiveness, even though I was paying more per month on my loans in a qualifying public service position. At that time, the XXXX agent told me that I could not retroactively change to the IBR plan in order to recoup those 3 years. There were also no application forms for the PLSF program, and I was informed that I need only submit the employment verification sometime in the next 10 years to ensure that I was added into the program. 
Fast forward to today - I still owe nearly 130 % of my gross annual salary in the same public service position, the PLSF program applications are available online, and I finally submitted my application to see where I stood in terms of the number of payments left before my loans would be forgiven. I am furious at the response letter I just received in the mail from XXXX, stating that I am not eligible for PLSC due to "" No Eligible Loan Type ( s ). '' My loans were originally issued via the XXXX Federal Direct Loan Program, some subsidized, some not. Those loans are indeed part of the forgiveness plan. It is my best guess that the method of consolidation I chose back when I switched to a 30-year repayment plan through XXXX disqualified me from the program, but I am uncertain. I 'm really not sure how to fix the problem. It is difficult to navigate between the XXXX that reviews the PSLF applications and two different loan servicers that have changed through time, first XXXX and now Navient. I feel that I have been duped, and I would like to correct the situation at least back to XXXX, if not all the way back to the beginning of the PLSC program in XXXX. I am happy to provide any employment and income verification needed in order to rectify this issue. Please help."
4376,I was called and harrassed about my student loans. I wad not given alternative repayment options. My loans were XXXX then placed with Navient.
5329,Navient is calling my work number. My employer does not want them to call my work number.
2800,"I am currently enrolled in an IBR plan. Navient has gradually decreased the amount of months from 12 to 9 in my plan. For example, my current payment plan began on XX/XX/XXXX and I needed to reapply for IBR by XX/XX/XXXX. I was recently contacted by Navient telling me that I need to reapply by XX/XX/XXXX and that my current payment plan is being "" phased out '' and that it will end XX/XX/XXXX, almost a full three months ahead of schedule, and that if I ca n't complete my taxes in time for the IBR calculation my payment will nearly double, fines will assessed, and interest will be capitalized. I told the representative that I understood while I need to reapply for my IBR plan every year, each yearly calculated payment schedule was for a full 12 months and that Navient has been decreasing the payment window and making me reapply every year sooner and sooner. She told me that Navient is trying to "" phase '' out the plans and that there was nothing she could do to restore the payment window or move the date for reapplying. When pressed for what I would be fined for, she told me that it was associated with "" the cost of moving you ( me ) to a new repayment plan '' and for failing to properly provide required documentation for my current plan. I have no problem making payments for my student loans, but I 'm getting very frustrated that Navient is trying to both cheat the system and trick me out of IBR and collect higher payments. I am XXXX, and while both my accountant and I have started in XX/XX/XXXX on my taxes, they 're usually completed by the XX/XX/XXXX and they 're far from simple. The representative said that my income information must be verifiable, e.g. the IRS needs to have my tax information in their system by XX/XX/XXXX, otherwise I will be "" kicked '' out of my IBR plan. It should n't be this hard for a borrower to follow the rules and be told incorrect information. If necessary, I would be very happy to forward to you the emails from Navient detailing the change in dates and payment schedules or to discuss my case with you."
8163,"My name is XXXX XXXX, I reside at XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX, XXXX XXXX, XXXX XXXX. 
I graduated from XXXX XXXX XXXX in XXXX on XXXX 2014 as a XXXX. In order for me to attend that school, they helped me to obtain XXXX student loans, XXXX for about {$20000.00} backed by the Federal Student loan and the other for {$8100.00} from another lender. Six months after my graduation I was to start repaying the loans, which I did with some of my savings, money from the XXXX XXXX, one weekend a month, and my father help. I made payments for about six to seven months but without a job I could not continue doing so. I applied for "" a Forbearance '' form both loans and it was granted to me by the Federal Student Loan right away but the other loan refused to give me a Forbearance and decided instead to refer my Loan to a collection agency, the name of the agency is Enterprise Recovery Systems. I am finally working as a XXXX XXXX and I contacted the XXXX Student Loans organization to start repaying those Loans. In the mean time, the Collection Agency is adding about XXXX % to the XXXX loan, the original amount was {$8100.00} now the balance is {$10000.00}, Documents attached. Is this something that is allow by law for this collection agency to add such a outrageous amount to a loan? The only reason I was not paying is because I did not have a job. 
Please advise. 
Thanks - XXXX XXXX - XXXXXXXXXXXX"
6407,"XXXX private student loans were taken out on XX/XX/XXXX, XX/XX/XXXX, and XX/XX/XXXX. No payment was ever made on the account, so it immediately went into default as of XX/XX/XXXX, XX/XX/XXXX, and XX/XX/XXXX. Per the loan agreements, the first payment is to be made 60 days from separation from the school. I dropped the classes the first week they started. Essentially at this point the loans are out of the statute of limitations. Because they sold the debt to a different company in XXXX they are deeming that to be a payment. This should no longer be on my credit profiles, and I have wrote numerous letters. The collection agencies took it off of my credit when I provided them with the validation of the contract, but the original credit is still reporting derogatory."
3923,"I submitted a request for an Income Based Repayment ( IBR ) plan to Navient in XXXX of XXXX. I was assured that the request was received and that my new payment amount would be {$0.00} per month. When I checked my account in XXXX of XXXX I was surprised to see that I had been charged at the regular monthly rate since XXXX XXXX and I had accrued late fees for the past 6 months. I immediately called Navient and was told that the IBR was received in XXXX of XXXX but was never applied to my account. They did n't know why. They then asked me to resubmit another IBR request and again assured me that it had been received and applied. In XXXX of XXXX I checked my credit report to find that my credit score had dropped considerably due solely to Navient 's incorrect reporting of 6 months of missed payments on my student loan accounts between XXXX XXXX and XXXX XXXX. I called Navient to have them remove the fees which they agreed to do. The account was brought current and I had a XXXX balance. Today is XXXX XXXX and I just checked my Navient account because the missed payments are still showing up on my credit report and affecting my credit score greatly. Navient now states that I owe {$270.00} for my student loans when according to my IBR I am supposed to be at a {$0.00} payment until XXXX of XXXX. Their offices are n't currently open so I can not address this with them today but again they are incorrectly billing and applying charges when none are due. I continuously have to go behind them each month only to see that they still are applying charges that should n't be there. Then I have to sit with them on the phone for hours for them to correct it in their system, rehashing the story over and over, only to have to do it again the following month. It 's exhausting and a complete scam to charge people this way hoping that they wo n't notice and ruining their credit in the process. This needs to be addressed immediately."
6027,"I have been trying to responsibly manage my situation with Navient, yet every time I call them and I speak with someone they ( the agent ) end up hanging up on me. Today I was being asked some questions that the agent told me could potentialy lower my monthly payments, but when I told them I was un-employed the last thing I heard was a grunt and they hung up. This is not the first time this has happened. On a seperate occasion last week I told them I was not capable of making large monthly payments, and when I was asked how much I could pay, I responded to the agent and he told me he would return my call. I never received a call from Navient in regards to that conversation. Now they are telling me that a payment I had agreed to make with them did not go through. I am trying very hard to be responsible given my situation with un-employment, while also trying to avoid any kind of delinquency but Navient is beginning to demonstrate some rather sketchy behavior. I feel helpless in this situation because I am trying to call, and I am trying to reach a solution, but I am recurrently being hung up on, and when I try to call back no one answers."
256,I would like to have my loan dismissed. My previous school XXXX I attended before returning to school for a XXXX degree is no longer open and I should not have to continue making payments. These payments were consolidated into XXXX loan along with my schooling for XXXX. I believe this loan should be dismissed all together or forgiven.
2144,"Nelnet has combined my subsidized and unsubsidized student loans without permission. I used to have a Group A and Group B student loan that I paid to them. Now -- -I have only a Group A. I intend on going back to school next year -- -so, I intend on only paying the unsubsizided since the interest will still accrue. They have done so without my permission. I have tried to call multiple times -- -and have gotten no resolve. I am on time AND ahead -- -but I have every right to pay either loan in advance by law. How many times are they going to manipulate my loans?"
2273,"I attended a College in 1996, the College was threatened with losing it 's accredition so I transferred to a Technical College. XXXX XXXX XXXX provided Maintenance/Servicing to my Loans, at which time I was told the old debt was deleted due to leaving the School and it later losing accredition. My loans were then sold to Navient who then told me My accounts were deffered, or in forbance which neither happened, and the Interest is more than I originally owed for the Loans to begin with."
6362,"I submitted a co-signer release to Navient which was not approved. I have XXXX credit score, I work for a XXXX and have for the past two years, I am currently getting my XXXX, my co-signer has a XXXX credit score and has filed bankruptcy in the past and I feel is a liability to being on my loan. She was married with XXXX incomes when she co-signed, she is now divorced and can barely make ends meat herself."
2152,"I got this call telling me about a student loan, that is under investigation, while I 'm already paying my loans with an creditor that I 'm using. They would n't listen to my response to not to call, and keep on with their business."
6037,"After approx. XXXX ( XXXX ) total Total and Permanent Cancellation, Deferment, Economic Hardship Requests in addition to Loan Discharge Applications in addition to appeals to my congressman, referrals to XXXX and supporting documenation from physicians plus XXXX ( XXXX ) changes in servicing entities, my medical condition has been ignored until the loan, originally made for attendance online at XXXX XXXX University, XXXX, XXXX for {$6000.00} now stands at {$8900.00}. During that time the interest rates that have been applied have continued to change from 11.25 % to 7.25 % to the current 5 % with an outstanding principle of {$10000.00}. I had XXXX, XXXX, XXXX and most recently, a XXXX while doing my best to finish my degree at XXXX XXXX and then proceed to be certified in XXXX from XXXX University thanks to the good graces of the XXXX and XXXX XXXX of the State of XXXX. This I accomplished with excellent grades while attempting to make headway on repayment of my loans at the XXXX XXXX. I turned XXXX years if age XXXX 2014. On advice of numerous help agencies and after contacting my loans ' latest servicing entity, I contacted legal counsel and was advised of my right to seek redress through the courts. I made contact with the Financial Aids Office at XXXX XXXX and was referred to cfpb citing the feeling that legal redress might not be necessary. It is with this hope in mind that I hereby wish to file a complaint and offer reams of paperwork that has been submitted, resubmitted and repeatedly ignored in mine and my physicians ' substantiation of my XXXX claims. I currently receive {$1000.00} per month from XXXX and find continued repayment of this debt an extreme hardship."
1166,"I believe my loan with Navient has been overcharged and a lot interests has been added, no details at all why balance that big. I get no communication or notification regarding that."
174,"I was given false information about statuses and payments for my loan. My deferrment date for my loan also changed. My loans were supposed to be in deferment until XXXX XXXX, Navient made my loan repayment change to XXXX XXXX. My interest rate was increased without my knowledge, and no one could give me an answer why. I was forced to take a forbearance for my loans, which continued to allow interest to occur during those timeframes without being offered any other options. They did not work out an affordable payment plan for me when I had a job change/was unemployed."
4674,"XXXX only allowed us to borrow from XXXX and if we did n't then we could n't attend unless we had the cash up front or a private loan from a bank, and since my cosigner was my grandfather that was n't an option, after he died I had a harder and harder time getting loans or help from them while I was an XXXX. I then found out I was being evicted and part of the eviction was my loans did n't go through and so there was no money for the on campus housing I was living in since I started. They said I had 48 hours to get out or they 'd change the locks and I 'd be charged. with interest I owe around XXXX dollars, yes XXXX dollars for something that I did n't even get to graduate from. They never wanted to work with me and would harass me and my parents from XXXX to XXXX everyday. They would call my job and say things, like "" WE KNOW SHE 'S THERE PUT HER ON THE PHONE! '' My manager had to tell them to stop calling and harassing me since I never have them my number and they call up to five times a day. They would ask me why my parents could n't help me, who at the time lost their house to XXXX from foreclosure, why could n't I just get another full time job and that at this rate I 'll never pay it off. There were times my mom literally got of the phone with them in tears because of how they treated and berated her for having no money all the while the school and the company said nothing about being a private profit school and loan company. My credit is ruined. I ca n't even get any credit cards to try and build it back up, and I still live with my parents at XXXX because I ca n't get any help or financial help from anyone. Now I 'm expected to pay back XXXX dollars on a predatory loan company that I get no help or loan forgiveness. I even had a women tell me well you could just sell your stuff, do you really need a cell phone ( no land line at my house ) and ca n't you just give your animals to someone. then she proceeded to tell me to just XXXX and try to figure it out because since I owe so much they 'll just take me to court and I could have the possibility of going to jail. 
XXXX is one big scam. They got a pay out and we 're still stuck paying on loans they as a company got forgiven for. They are predatory and aggressive and have no intentions of helping or forgiving the the loans that they knew you could never pay back with the interest rates higher than XXXX XXXX. This company literally ruined my life as an adult because I can do nothing, but deal with it and still live with my parents until they die because I ca n't go or afford anywhere else even with a full time job. They actually made me hate my major and what I went to college for. I have n't picked up a camera or done anything with my major since being forced to drop out after the school said I owed XXXX to be current. I wrote them a check out of a settlement I had when I was younger from an accident. They took the check cashed it then said I still owed them thousands more and I have to leave."
1152,"My grievance with both "" Sallie Mae '' and "" XXXX '' involves a procedure/practice of the company ( XXXX ) more so than a one-time occurrence. 

I frequently make additional payments towards my Sallie Mae/XXXX student loans and have been doing so for over 5 years now. When making my additional payments, I focus on one specific loan, ( referred to herein as my "" targeted loan '' ), at a time so that the targeted loan can be paid off and thereby eliminate the mandatory monthly payment from my expenses. 

The issue with SallieMae/XXXX is that when I 've attempted to make additional payments on one targeted loan, if the payment for your "" Loan Group '' is due, both the Sallie Mae and XXXX websites will require you to make the payment on your "" Loan Group '' due before allowing you to pay an additional payment on a specific/targeted loan. 

The problem I have with this is that the "" Loan Group '' becomes due usually around 30 days prior to the date the payment is actually due by, thereby disenabling myself ( and others ) from being able to pay extra towards a targeted loan unless I pay my "" Loan Group '' due amount early. 

So for example, say I want to pay an additional {$50.00} towards my Loan 1-10 on XX/XX/2017, but my Loan Group payment is showing as due by XX/XX/2017 and requires that I pay {$250.00}. I am unable to pay the additional {$50.00} towards my targeted loan until I 've paid the Loan Group, even though the loan group is n't actually due for 24 days! 

Being paid bi-weekly, if I wanted to make this extra payment towards my targeted loan and thus by doing so be forced pay my "" Loan Group '' at times over 20 days in advance of the due date, it would have detrimental impact on my budget. If Sallie Mae/XXXX would have allowed me to make the additional {$50.00} payment at the time I so chose to ( without the required Loan Group payment being a mandated prerequisite ), I could have saved money in the amount of interest I am being charged on a per diem basis on my targeted loan and would have been able to pay my targeted loan off much earlier the burden to pay my Loan Group early would not have prevented my additional payments on my targeted loan. 

I think this practice is very unfair to the consumer and if it had been disallowed years ago could have saved me a great deal of stress from the burden of financial hardship I was faced with in repaying my student loans, and I 'm sure many others like me. 

I 've noticed this practice with Sallie Mae/XXXX on its servicing of Private/High interest rate loans, Department of Education Loans, and Federal Loans ( subsidized and non-subsidized ). 

Having begun my post-college student loan repayment with over 12 different student loans, the vast majority of which serviced by Sallie Mae and subsequently XXXX, I have become familiarized with this occurrence that I feel is greatly unfair to borrowers, although the impact on an individual person may not be immediately devastating, but the practice is unfairly benefiting the lender at the expense of the borrower. I feel very strongly that the practice should be eliminated and those impacted shown some form of compensation for the unnecessary prolonging of their indebtedness to Sallie Mae/XXXX."
1054,"I have been trying to pay off my student loans since leaving college in 2010. At the beginning of the repayment period, my loans hovered at approx. $ XXXX due. I have paid my student loans ( never late beyond 30 days ) despite job losses and today my payment has increased to $ XXXX with no end in sight. I 've tried income driven repayment plans with no help. Unless I double my payments, I will see no progress in paying down. Not to mention that my loans ( which are supposed to be consolidated ) have varied interest rates attached to each loan. The rates range from 2.10 to 6.8 %. The website used to pay my loans is no help with trying to determine how to properly allocate my payments and the customer service number ( when it 's working ) leads to no help. I do n't understand why a consolidated student loan comes with varied interest rates. I would like someone to review my file and help me determine the best way to accomplish repayment. As it stands I will being paying these loans for 20 years when the rest will supposedly be forgiven."
6103,"I filed a Identity Theft claim with this company American Education Services when I found out that someone had forged my signature on a student loan. They replied that the owner of the loan was XXXX XXXX XXXX and that they had denied my claim. When I sent all the necessary paperwork to XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX They in turn replied that they do not make the decision on the IDentity Theft Claim. That the creditor XXXX XXXX XXXX are the ones who denied the claim. When I sent the information back to AES they in turn say its XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX. Attached are all documents sent to both parties and their replies indicating that obviously no one wants to take the blame. The IDentity thft account has been sent to numerous collection agencies ( XXXX ) and when I speak with the agencies they all say that the original creditor is XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX NO one is clearing my name from this account and I need resolution to this and quick! This ping pong has been going on since XX/XX/XXXX. I already put in other complaints against these companies with other government agencies like the Attorney XXXX XXXX and FTC. 
Some how in writing to the companies and supplying all documentations isnt enough. 
On XXXX XXXX I had agreed to sign for a student loan for a friends daughter, with XXXX XXXX XXXX. Once there, they had spelled my name wrong and told me that they will send me corrected forms and that I will have to send them back with my initials. Needless to say I received the paperwork from XXXX XXXX on the XX/XX/XXXX. Once Received I called XXXX XXXX XXXX at the number on the bottom of the letter and ask the representative how do I stop this process as I then realized that I did not want to proceed with the signing. The representative stated that the letter they sent me was self explanatory. If I did not return the forms signed and initials were indicated within the 30 days no further consideration will be given to the application. ( Letter attached ) so I did NOT return anything to them. I still have the original forms they sent me in XX/XX/XXXX IF you notice on the attached copies of the letters I have the LENDER COPY, BORROWERS COPY AND THE COSIGNERS COPY still in my possesion. I also have the Lender copy that American Education Services sent me when I requested information on this Identity Theft. The XXXX copy has a date of XXXX/XXXX/XXXX with a forged signature. But for their conveience they seem to be only circulating to the the XXXX application I did on XXXX/XXXX/XXXX to the collections agencies and other parties involved so that they can try and collect on this so called debt .No one seems to be able to find the forged signature application but yet they, american education services were the people who sent it to me in the first place when I requested applications and other information used on this Identity Theft Account. It was only XX/XX/XXXX that I realized that this loan was out there. I am not one to constantly pull my credit report for no reason but when I was refinancing my house, the broker told me that I had to explain the amount on this loan. Thats when I realized and immediately but in the IDentity Theft report with the FTC and file a police report and commenced with obtaining information used in the Theft Account with American Education Services. Thats when AES immediately turned around and sent the account to a collection agencies. I told the collection agency everything they in turn sent it back to AES and then they turned around again and sent it to XXXX then to XXXX XXXX, Now its with XXXX XXXX XXXX. They are a scam company and from what I am reading on the Database for the Attorney General in Pennsylvania there are alot of people complaining about these companies."
203,"The current holder of the student loan provided a XXXX for XX/XX/2016 that showed XXXX interest paid. I calculated the interest from their website and paid {$1000.00} in interest, which their representative acknowledged. When I contacted the lender they advised that they had over-reported my previous tax years interest payments, so they were making an adjustment this year ; therefore, they will not report the XX/XX/2016 interest paid. If their records show I paid more in interest, that means I paid less in premiums so my loan is not being paid down as it should. Two problems : 1 ) I do not get credit for interest paid in XX/XX/2016, and 2 ) by the lender applying a larger percentage of my monthly payments to interest, I am not getting full credit for paying the premium,"
4412,"I am an XXXX XXXX. When I was XXXX to XXXX, my loans went into default. Before going to default, I attempted to get my loans in a deferment or income based repayment plan. I had tried to have the XXXX use a Student Loan Repayment Plan ( SLRP ), but he XXXX did not process this payment correctly. Instead of putting the loans into a military deferment, using the SLRP to pay the loans off, or put the loans in an income-based repayment plan, my loans went into default. I have tried working with the loan provider and debt collection company, but neither will not allow me to pay off the loans with a payment plan. Now that the loans are in default, the XXXX 's SLRP program wo n't pay the loans off."
3525,"Severely limited and expensive repayment options for Americans living abroad. 

My loans were first acquired by XXXX XXXX and then split off to Navient. I am an American living abroad for employment and as such, have no US bank/checking accounts. Originally, XXXX XXXX allowed for online XXXX payments. They took it away, leaving the only repayment option to pay with credit card -- but, they would only accept the payment by charging a {$14.00} credit card fee. When Navient took over the loans, they also accepted credit cards, also for a fee. I have accepted the fee, but now, in XX/XX/2017 Navient refuses to accept credit card payments. If you do not have a US bank account, there is ZERO option to repay the loans without exorbitant international bank transfer fees. This is XX/XX/2017, where most institutions allow for online payment options which include a credit/debit card option. To have a repayment system which discriminates against clients who would like to pay back loans but lack a US bank account is absurd. Especially as the system allowed for online XXXX payments in the beginning. This practice is deliberately set up to incur late payment fees, banking fees and other costs for any student loan holder not able to access a US bank account. While not accepting credit cards or XXXX ( supposedly ) lowers operating costs for Navient, it discriminates against expats who have the means and will to repay loans. In speaking with Navient representatives ( XX/XX/2017 ) about the latest decision to not accept credit card payments, they indicate they are aware of the problem for international individuals but do not yet have a solution. This is unacceptable."
9673,"Financial Asset management systems ( FAMS ) has steadfastedly refused to provide me a detailed balance statement on my account. In addition, FAMS does not have a contract with me to collect student loan payments from me. FAMS is engaging in illegal and abusive debt collection practices. The only rationale that I keep receiving on why my balance jumped from {$24000.00} to {$66000.00} is "" interest. '' "" Interest '' is not a sufficient explanation. I never received a detailed balance statement as to how this occurred and how this new balance was calculated. FAMS is trying to Collect on a balance that has not been shown to be correct which is a flagrant violation of the Fair Debt Collections Practices Act. FAMS is engaging in unfair business practices. I have not been shown where my debt payments are being applied to. In addition, my credit report has not been updated to repayment status as I was originally told by FAMS. FAMS has repeatedly threatened me, and has engaged in abusive debt collection practices including hanging up on me and repeated threats that are in flagrant violation of the Fair Debt Collections Practices Act. Their lies regarding updating my credit report to repayment status after XXXX payments which never happened were flagrant violations of the Fair Debt Collections Practices Act."
1154,"My defaulted student loans can ONLY be handled by Performant because of the owner of the loan. I would like to reahab my payment plan. I have tried on several occasions to set up a payment plan - specifically the income driven plans since I am poor. 
They said that they would send me the paperwork and details. and after two whole months of waiting, I called them and finally they sent me something, a statement of my loans ... but what I asked for was the paperwork details of this contract which I was to begin payments on. SO, I called them again, and asked why. She said that I had to give her my credit card information and begin payments BEFORE signing a contract or agreeing to anything. I told her no way, and hung up. 
O began talking to XXXX XXXX XXXX, and they said that I was correct, that I should not give any money until I receive a written explanation and contract. 
I spoke with Performant again on XX/XX/XXXX. This time, it was with a different woman, and she said that they would transfer me to a different department after I gave my credit card information to her and made my first payment. I told her no way -- that it was shady business, and that she would n't handle he personal finances that way and neither would I. 
I am filing a complaint today because I have no other recourse. The people who own my loanssay I have to use their collection agency and yet, I can not be convinced without paper contract."
494,"I have been consistently encouraged to put my loans in forbearance since 2012 when i first returned to XXXX College and then XXXX University XXXX to school, despite the fact that i am currently low income and have been for several years. I was never offered the opportunity to base my repayment amount on my income level, or informed that there were options available that would limit or eliminate the amount of interest accrued on my loans over time. I was also never offered the option of consolidating my loans. The push was consistently toward forbearance and interest accruing repayment plans."
255,"What can I say ... Navient has utterly and completely ruined my life. They have stone walled me every single time I have tried to lower or alter in some fashion my student loans, and as a result my credit score, and the credit scores of my parents have been significantly effected in a negative way. The most recent issue occurred this past month, and has seemingly come a close today. I have my student loans set up to auto withdraw every month from my account, and when one month passed with no withdraw I waited until the following business day to contact Navient to ask why it had not been taken out as the funds were available. They had told me that I was no longer in the income driven repayment plan so I asked to resubmit my information and they had told me that my parents had to have their finances reevaluated and after that time they will look at my finances and calculate my monthly payment amount. My mother had called to submit her information for their consideration at which time she was told that she was not authorized on the account and that I would have to authorize her. I called back today to authorize her and I was told by XXXX of Navient 's collections department that information was never needed and that the previous customer service representative had misinformed me. They had always been able to speak with my mom about her financial changes, but someone misinformed us all. When I asked if I could supply my financial status I was quickly told that I was no longer eligible to enter the income driven repayment plan because the enrollment period had ended. So I have to suffer because you and your team jerked me and my family around. She said that I had to pay XXXX dollars because that was my new bill, and when I told her I could n't pay that she told me that she was indicating on my file in collections that i was "" unwilling to pay ''. Unwilling in my opinion means I have the money and I 'm choosing not to give it to you. Facts are I am barely making enough to feed and house myself. I do n't have health insurance. I do n't even have money to get myself glasses or contact lenses. I ca n't operate a vehicle anymore because of my lack of vision. I make just enough money to pay my landlord, pay for food, and pay my student loans. Over the last 2 years since my account was transferred to Navient my credit score suffered. When I moved out my parents house I asked for my payment to be recalculated to take into consideration my new bills in which they said absolutely not. When I was laid off I asked for help to which again I was told absolutely not. When I found a new job and had been put down to part time. I asked for help ... .they said : absolutely not. They have been unwilling to work with me. They have insulted me via phone. Made assumptions of my character based on my life circumstances and inability to pay and have decided to take it upon themselves to tarnish my record by saying I 'm unwilling to pay when in reality IM NOT ABLE. They have already taken my credit score, and along with it any hopes of a successful happy life in the near future. No matter what happens I 'm going to be struggling to keep my head above water, and to make ends meet. Even if my student loan payments were lowered, when they refused to help me my only course of action was to put my monthly student loan balance onto credit cards. I am in all sorts of debt now. I 'm always going to be playing catchup and all because they would never extend a hand and help someone out who could wholeheartedly and honestly prove their life circumstances had changed. My dads credit score is ruined and I still have XXXX more sisters that need to go to college. How is he going to be able to co sign for them now?? Now their lives are effected. I just do n't understand why a company that seems to hate people so much gets in a line of work that has so much power over their lives."
1503,"$ years of Stafford Plus loans to put son through college. Each year consolidated with total loan amount of approx. {$38000.00}. Was set up on gradated payments with payoff in approx. 10 years. Entered into bankruptcy in XX/XX/XXXX with payments to continue, which they did. After bankruptcy loan transferred to Navient. They show we still owe {$38000.00} According to my records we made {$26000.00} in payments from XX/XX/XXXX to XX/XX/XXXX ( 8yrs 4 months ) We received letter from Navient that our forbearance was approved. I never requested a forbearance. Additionally they changed our payment schedule to a new extended schedule for 25 years. I never agreed to such schedule and would be XXXX years old when it is paid off. Our original payment schedule should have paid off the loan in approx. XX/XX/XXXX"
1226,"I 'm confused I attempted to consolidate my loans so I could do income based repayment ( IBR ) and the public service loan forgiveness program ( PSLF ), but when I spoke to a representative from the program they said I did not have the correct loans. However, I was assured by the Great Lakes representative that this consolidation would put me on the path to loan repayment. I am very disappointed and confused- this cost me 11 months of payments. I do n't understand why there was the problem because I do n't have any private loans. Obviously, this misinformation benefits the loan company. I would like to know what recourse I have."
3216,"On my payment schedule it listed my payment as being set to increase XX/XX/XXXX, but actually had this higher amount on my XX/XX/XXXX statement. My statements had been {$180.00} and were suddenly increased to {$190.00} on XX/XX/XXXX with no notification, even though my account has a repayment schedule set to increase to his amount specifically on XX/XX/XXXX. I was concerned at first, and these were exacerbated by the slew of recent lawsuits against this company."
423,"This company is damaging my credit by reporting erroneous late payments. How can a payment be 90 days late within 30 days or with the month prior stating payment history is satisfactory? All these inaccurate negative reporting should be removed. 

Also, I did some research on the FTC website, and it states that this financial company was supposed to notify me within 30 days in writing before or after reporting ANY NEGATIVE INFORMATION TO THE CREDIT BUREAUS. 

I never received any notification. 

Negative Information from Financial Institutions -- If you are a financial institution ( as defined in the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act ) that extends credit and regularly reports information about your customers to a nationwide CRA ( for example, XXXX, XXXX, or XXXX ), you must notify your customers that you report such negative information. Examples of negative information include a customer 's delinquencies, late payments, insolvency, or any form of default. FCRA 623 ( a ) ( 7 ) ( G ) ( i ) Please See Attached Document Showing Inaccuracies in reporting!"
617,I am in forebrance. It shows on my credit report i am over 149 days pass due
8523,"Navient has not provided me with an accurate XXXX Student Loan interest paid statement for my private Student Excel loan. Account number XXXX. When requesting a XXXX by phone I was directed to a customer service representative specifically trained in Private loans and was assured I would receive it in my email. The attached form was received and is not accurate nor a XXXX. 

I received a notice on the automated phone system that a self certifying form to confirm the interest paid for my XXXX was sent to my mailing address was correct but I have not received it yet nor is it available online for download. This is an unnecessary burden mean to discourage borrowers from receiving tax benefits for private loans. The XXXX should be available and should have been mailed to me since i paid more than {$600.00} in interest and capitalized interest in the 2014 tax year."
2514,"Every time I had trouble making payments, the reps at Navient advised me to take a forbearance and stated "" it 's okay, just put your payments on hold and then try to begin payments in a year or so ''. The additional interest rates that added to my total balance make it so much harder to pay down my balance. I switched to another lender ( XXXX ) and they have me on an reduced payment program. I feel that the interest added on by Navient should be removed so I can responsibly pay off my debt."
3221,"I am a victim of the illegal practices conducted by Navient. I was contacted by phone by an automated system letting me know I can request forbearance of my loan and then I was emailed and was asked to reply with a simple "" Yes '' in the email if I wanted to participate in forbearance. I have done this 3 times because now I am in a cycle of increasing the interest on my loan and not earning enough money to pay it. I thought the emails were too simple a solution to my problem but I had trust in Navient and their solutions and debt managing. I do n't know what to do but I am glad that they are being sued by the Federal government."
1668,"I 'm writing because I am not able to make payment on my loans. When I stared out my loans were with XXXX now they are with Navient. They keep collecting interest, even though I was on a forbearance. I would like to have them delegated off of my credit report because it 's hindering me."
5835,Forgive and bail out the students.
8568,"My student loans from XXXX/navient gave me interest rates I would never be able to pay back unless I got an incredibly well paying job while also paying for other loans and living expenses. On several occasions they have conviently lost my payment information and wait to inform me a month later on collection instead of informing me before incurring monsterour late fees. 
They 've also made me do forebearance already so now I am stuck if I can not make payments in the future for other reasons. When I did file for income based repayments they never sent me documentation so I know the terms and how long I have for the income based program."
581,"I am a XXXX veteran. My status was official through the Department of Veterans Affairs in XX/XX/2011. I contacted XXXX and informed them of my XXXX status and I would no longer pursue a college degree. I submitted all required documentation of my status. Somehow the process of discharging my student loan debt, slipped through the cracks and my account showed delinquent. My loans are currently discharged due to my XXXX status, but it should have never been reported as delinquent. ECMC discharged all student loan debt under XXXX application that I filed. The letter for approval states I was eligible as of XX/XX/2011. 
My family and I are suffering greatly by the reporting practices of all XXXX major credit reporting bureaus. Please correct this wrong. 

Thank you, XXXX"
1814,They are abusing the people. Im not done with school and im afraid to go back. When i stopped going it was for the XXXX 3 yrs ago. I left oweing almost XXXX and i currently oweing almost XXXX.
4057,""" I '' do not HAVE any "" loans '' - I am being SPAMMED in the US MAIL from this private servicing debt collection agency that has PURCHASED my PRIVATE INFORMATION from others and filed FALSE CLAIMS in my bankruptcy in XXXX the FIRST TIME they got in trouble ... NOW - after my XXXX bankruptcy was dismissed without any discharge and my house stolen by other out of state debt collector lawyers who used my STOLEN INFORMATION from the Federal XXXX database - this SAME company is spamming me again. WHEN is the CFPB going to ENFORCE the Privacy Act of XXXX? The Patriot Act + Real ID Act + a Social Security account Number attached to a LEGAL NAME ===does NOT EQUAL A HUMAN BEINGS "" debt ''."
1855,Navient has repeatedly suggested that I use forbearance when struggling after losing my job and after encountering financial problems. I have now had several forbearances and just recently I learned about Income Driven Repayment plans ... I do n't understand why they did not tell me that there was an Income Driven Repayment option.
2164,"While I was XXXX, I had my Grandmothers address as my record address for my student loan because I move so much in the military. In XXXX from the military. The problem is, I never received notification of deferment needs/ payment requirements because my Grandmother had passed away and I no longer had her to forward my mail to me and I never received anything from Navient when they received the mail returned to sender. I only noticed the error when my normally stellar credit turned bad. I immediately contacted Navient set up payment terms, had deferments submitted for the problematic period of non-payment and even forwarded a copy of my Grandmothers obituary as a substantiating document to what had happened. I believed all was good however, Navient is reporting the period of non-payment negatively on my credit report when I had was unaware that the requirement existed. In addition to this negative information, they are reporting my loan broken into five separate accounts, compounding the negative information in that it appears I have 5 separate instances of non-payment. I recently tried to dispute the negative information on my credit report but Navient reported back that the information was correct and my credit remains negative even though I have set up automatic payments as soon as I was aware of the requirement."
564,"My lender Navient has steered me into costly forbearance for financial relief instead of less costly options. I was once not told a fee would be issued for a forbearance, I was made to understand that it would collect full interest while in forbearance only. Because of the fact i needed 1 month of payment relief, i believe is was deceived. Instead of deferment which i think would of benefited my situation i was forced into the costly forbearance for a 3 month period. This happened on 2 occasions, on the second occasion i was made aware of a fee is applied to forbearance. 

Navient has also changed their page design numerous times and it is confusing to navigate and pay loans."
7081,"I spoke to someone at Citibank last week regarding my student loan w/ them. Am wanting to try to negotiate better terms for the loan. Was informed that they "" are out of the student loan business and there 's no one to talk to '' I still send my payments to them, so why is there no one to speak with?? Is this legal, or part of a deliberate attempt to protect their profit? This is issue # 1. 
I began repayment of loan after I XXXX in 2011, and during the deferral period before that, paid the quarterly interest. I have paid greater than the billed amount each month. To date I 've paid in over {$18000.00}, and yet my current loan balance on an orignal amount of {$24000.00} is over {$22000.00}, meaning I 've only reduced the loan by about {$1800.00} and the bank has profited a tidy sum of over {$16000.00}. It appears to me that this qualifies to be called predatory lending? Issue # 2"
1416,"Because of losing a XXXX I was unable to work for almost a year. I fell behind on my bills. I filed a chapter XXXX bankruptcy. I paid back everyone I owed % XXXX of what I owed! Three months early. Even my daughter 's student loan that I had signed for. Now two months after my discharged in which I thought I was debt free I get a letter from XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX stating that I still owe MOHELA money. Apparently even though I was making monthly payments to them through court. they were charging me interest. Now they what that interest to be paid. They are charging me interest on my interest. They said that becuse I fell behind that they could "" capitalize '' the interest and turn it into principal. therefor I ca n't even get the tax deduction. When I file my chapter XXXX they submitted a claim to the court for what I owed them. Why did n't they ask for the full amount then. 
it 's like a loan shark. Even after you pay them you will always owe!"
943,"My claim is in response to recent allegations brought against Navient. 

In 2009 I took out XXXX student loans through XXXX, which were later sold to Navient. XXXX loan as been paid off with XXXX My claim is in response to recent allegations brought against XXXX and Navient. 

In 2009 I took out XXXX student loans through XXXX, which were later sold to Navient. XXXX loan as been paid off with XXXX remaining open. 

To pay off XXXX of the XXXX loans, I placed a large payment with Navient to clear the principal balance in its entirety. The next month, I received a bill showing the loan had not been closed. When I contacted customer service, they informed me that as opposed to applying the total payment to the principal, they amortized it over the life of the loan, applying it toward future interest and principle payments. I was eventually able to have them restructure this payment to close out this loan, but not without great hassle. At no time upon initial payment was I told the amount would be amortized. When the amount was paid, I had specifically instructed to close the loan and pay the principle in full but this was not done. 

Prior to payoff of this loan, one year out of XXXX school, I was tight on cash and called to see if there was anyway to reduce my monthly payments so they would be more manageable. I was instead encouraged to take a forbearance. I was told it was a "" great way to catch up '' because payments would n't be due for 3 months. At not time was I notified of the negative effects of taking a forbearance, and was shocked to find my credit score strongly affected by this a few months later upon trying to finance a new car. 

Following payoff of my large loan, I was left with appox. {$21000.00} between XXXX student loans remaining at a 6.25 % interest rate. I have paid $ XXXX/month for these XXXX loans specifically over the last 7 years plus additional periodic lump sum payments for $ XXXX {$1500.00} when able. To date, my principles between both loans have only been paid down by {$5000.00}. The Navient website does not allow you to see how your monthly payments are applied, simply the total principal left and the amount in interest you 'll pay assuming it takes 30 years to repay. Assuming I 've approximately paid out {$13000.00} in monthly payments over the last 7 years plus the periodic large sum payments I estimate to be about {$2000.00} in total, I 've paid XXXX/Navient approximately {$15000.00}. With approximately {$16000.00} remaining due on my principal. That mean 's since 2009, {$5000.00} of my payments have lowered my principal while {$10000.00} has been applied towards interest. Because of Navient 's website setup, I have no way of confirming application of such was done properly."
2040,"The company provides me with misinformation every time I call regarding my account. My account information is never correct and I receive a different inaccurate reason for the failure of the account to be correct each time. Every time I am advised that the account will be corrected, but it has yet to be correct when I follow up. I was recently advised that I needed to make a physical payment since my direct debit was requested to be changed and that no direct debit would be withdrawn. However, both the physical payment ( {$820.00} ) and a direct debit ( {$630.00} ) were withdrawn. Furthermore, when I made the change to my direct debit amount, I did not authorize the direct debit amount that they withdrew but had made a request for the amount of my monthly installment to be withdrawn ( my monthly installment is supposed to be {$820.00} but on XXXX/XXXX/16 it stated my monthly installment was {$1.00} and yet {$630.00} was withdrawn ). I can not get accurate information regarding my account any time that I call to inquire. Further. when Fedloan servicing took over my account from XXXX, they did not transfer my loans as a full consolidation like XXXX had previously completed for me. Therefore an additional consolidation had to be created in order for them to be included in the public service loan forgiveness repayment option and the repayment plan is therefore extended on those particular loans. Accurate information is vital to being able to manage student loan repayments and this company lacks the resources and tact to do so. I will be escalating this as far as I need to to ensure that others do not have to endure this lack of professionalism in the future and to ensure that my issues have been rectified. 

The University XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX, TN"
6991,"I graduated college in XX/XX/XXXX. I had a private loan through XXXX ( now the loan is owned by Navient ). I got married in XX/XX/XXXX, we have XXXX child, a house car etc. The entire time, I never missed a payment. In XX/XX/XXXX, my wife and I filed began the steps towards divorce. She moved out of our home. My private loans were about {$500.00} a month. She stopped paying her half of everything, including the mortgage. I could n't afford this all on my own. I contacted Navient and asked for help ( several times ). I asked what my options were, hoping for a lowered monthly payment or a new income base repayment that took my bills and debt into play. Every time I was steered towards forbearance. Finally, when I felt that I had no other option and did n't want to miss a payment, I agreed to go into forbearance. I asked several more times, but again, was told that this was my only option. My monthly bill is now {$530.00} and I am having a harder time than ever before."
1980,after completing paperwork for income based repayment I was approved for {$0.00} a month but according to Navient that does n't not count toward my 10 years. How can I be approved for income based payment and it not count for the 120 months.
7991,I keep getting calls from my student loans a new company took over a couple of years ago and I tried to talk with them but just wanted money no matter what and would not hang up until they had some money. since then the call have been getting more and more each day now receiving about 5 calls per day. Premiere Credit XXXX XXXX
9564,"Received collection call from debt collection company called National Enterprise Systems, on XXXX XXXX, 2017 at XXXX XXXX in XXXX XXXX, number that called XXXX XXXX ) XXXX, regarding student loan private loan debt, demanded that I give them an answer regarding my solution to pay off the debt within an hour, demanded that I had to call my cosigner ask the cosigner to put the debt in a credit card to get rid of the debt and get rid of them, pressured me to call back within an hour with a solution, was insensitive to my situation."
3694,"My loans are consolidated with Navient. I was on an income-based repayment plan and was given paperwork that informed me if I did not annually sign up by competing the paperwork for the income based plan, that I would be automatically switched to a standard 10 year repayment plan. After a year, I contacted Navient and was told I was still on the income based plan even though I had not completed the paperwork in almost 2 years. I asked to switch to the standard repayment plan and was asked "" well how much do you want to pay? '' and I had to then calculate how much I 'd like to pay monthly in order to pay my loans off in 10 years. In the last year alone, I 've put almost XXXX in to my loans in order to get out from under the crushing debt and 6.375 % interest rate. I could basically own a second home with how much I pay for getting a XXXX XXXX XXXX in order to XXXX ( where a XXXX XXXX XXXX is the bare minimum to be able to obtain a XXXX ). This company does not care about student well-being or even doing their job to assist us. They prey on young people with a poor understanding of their loan practices and then exploit them as much as possible. My story is just one, but I hear from friends all the time of similar situations where they were uninformed or taken advantage of by organizations that claim to help us manage the insane debt issued easily to us by the government. I will be following the Navient lawsuit and hope to see some compensation for myself, a hard-working XXXX year old with my XXXX child on the way who completed her XXXX and XXXX education as quickly as possible and found a job immediately after XXXX, and who has put her life on hold for 5 years while most of her income is given to companies who take home enourmous yearly salaries."
757,"I am writing to complaint about FedLoan Servicing Company which is holding my student loan account. FedLoan servicing company placed delinquency of late payment [ 90 days ] in my credit file. Please have this delinquency of late payment removed from my credit file because I have forbearance plan from XXXX/XXXX/XXXX to XXXX/XXXX/XXXX as the national student loan Data shows. When I found out, I wrote a letter to them stating that I have Forbearance from XXXX/XXXX/XXXX to XXXX/XXXX/XXXX. FedLoan employees admitted the processing took three months [ 3 months ] that why reason you being report to credit bureaus as delinquency for 90 days. When I called them to ask if they sent me any notation letter, they replayed that it is not their job. I called FedLoan but they refused to listen to me and they said that they ca n't remove the delinquency. They said I have to deal with it. I found out that FedLoan Servicing 's errors in calculating my monthly payment and I asked to clarify but they did not. I can say without any hesitation, without any reservation, that FedLoan Servicing ( which is an arm of the Pennsylvania Higher Education Assistance Association, or PHEAA ) is by far the worst of all of them. Based on a XXXX, a full XXXX % of borrowers who have loans with FedLoan Servicing have experienced at least one serious problem during the past six months was entirely caused by FedLoan Servicing. That is nearly XXXX out of XXXX borrowers. FedLoan Servicing 's failures are as broad in type as they are deep in volume, and they span nearly every fundamental task that the agency is supposed to be performing. Here are some specific examples of FedLoan Servicing 's incompetence : 1- Unacceptable delays : May student loan borrowers have been waiting for months to have their request for income-driven repayment processed and approved. Some people have waited six months or more for decisions on these programs. While they wait, borrowers are faced with a choice to either make impossible payment under a balance-based plan, or use up their forbearance while interest accrues. And of course, borrowers can not make progress towards loan forgiveness. XXXX wrote a detailed article on FedLoan Servicing 's delays. The U.S. Dept. of Education said that FedLoan Servicing would be improving. It has not. 
2- Payment calculation errors : With the rollout of the new Revised Pay As Your Earn ( REPAYE ) plan, FedLoan Servicing 's errors in calculating a borrower 's monthly payment under income-driven plans have increased substantially. In particular, FedLoan Servicing has been improperly factoring in spousal income for borrowers re-certifying for the ICR/IBR/PAYE plans, even where those borrowers file taxes separately from their spouse and under federal law, spousal income should be excluded. When FedLoan Servicing makes a mistake in calculating a borrower 's monthly payment, the borrower often pays the price-either in the form of making those higher payments, or by requesting a costly forbearance, while FedLoan Servicing takes its time to review the file. 
3- Misinformation : If you talk to a FedLoan Servicing customer service agent and they provide you with information that seems incorrect, politely end the call, and call back later to speak with someone else-they will almost certainly get a different answer. Student loan borrowers rely on loan servicers to provide them with complete, accurate, and up-to-date information about their loans. When servicers instead provide misinformation or inconsistent answers, borrowers are lost, and it can cost them. FedLoan Servicing 's customer staff can also come off as disinterested, unmotivated, or downright rude. 
Finally, please have this delinquency of late payment removed from my credit file due to incorrect information, errors, confusing, delay processing my forbearance application."
7482,"My bills are only mailed every other month giving me consecutive "" past due '' fees when I have never once signed up for paperless billing. I have spoken with representatives about this several times explaining I can only receive hard copy bills in the mail, because their online statements go directly into my spam folder. About once a year, they automatically switch me to online billing without my consent as well and refuse to cover my late fees."
3266,I have a parent plus loan originally through XXXX XXXX and Navient took over my loan and they keep doing forbearance on them with is costing more in interest instead of giving me a repayment plan. XXXXXXXXXXXX
1514,"I have a student loan with Mohela that I am paying on time, it is not delinquent. 
The payment for XXXX 2017 is due now and 16 days past due and they are calling my mother about this debt. she has nothing to do with this loan, thee loan is in my name only. 
This is harassment."
1745,"Dear CFPB, I have graduated from XXXX University back in XX/XX/XXXX with a student loan in the total amount of {$33000.00}. My monthly payments have started in XX/XX/XXXX in the amount ~ {$190.00} per month. This monthly payment amount was suggested to me by the lander and that is exactly what I have been paying for the last 10 years. 
Recently I have conducted an analysis of my loan to see where do I stand with my student loan balance, per Navient 's loan history, as XX/XX/XXXX, I have paid {$14000.00} so far toward the loan or in other words {$14000.00} is the total amount of payments that I have made in the last 10 years. However, I have noticed that my current balance is still at {$34000.00}. So I have decided to contact my lander, Navient, and get a clarification on this matter and hoping this is just a mistake that could be easily fixed. So I picked up the phone immediately and called Navient customer service, and to make long story short, I have been told that, if I continue making these payments FOR THE REST OF MY LIFE, I WILL NEVER PAY OFF THIS LOAN. 
What am I complaining about and what do I need as resolution to this HUGE issue : 1. I would like CFPB to publish this on consumerfinance.gov 2. I would like your help to make Navient apply my {$14000.00} towards my loan principle and not them telling me that all my payments went toward interest since this is how federal loans work Why my request should be fulfilled : 1. This loan payment term was never explained to me. And let me be VERY clear about what do I mean by clear. Back in XX/XX/XXXX, my lander did n't explain to me that if I only make $ XXXX month toward my student loan, I will never pay off my loan and it would stay the same for the rest of my life 2. I have been a great borrow, and I have made my payments in a timely manner for the last 10 years 3. I have worked hard for this money that I have paid so far and it is not fair nor right to tell me today that all of it went into interest Sincerely yours, XXXX"
154,"My student loans are managed by FedLoan Servicing and since being transferred to their service I have experienced significant issues - for the past few years I have to annually request a recalculation since they use my household income to calculate my payment, but fail to include in the calculation that both my husband and I have student loans. Additionally, during the last recalculation I requested a forebearance until they recalculated my repayment - they did not apply the forbearance, though they indicated that they had during our phone call, resulting in an unknown missed payment. My payments are direct debit, so I find it odd that I could simply "" miss '' a payment ; the mistake could only have been caused by their representative. 

I only just found out about the missed payment from XXXX - they claimed to have sent me emails and mail, which I never received until recently. I save every email from them and responded to the first one- received yesterday- that indicated delinquency. I am a responsible person, I pay my bills, and address issues as they arise. Since my loans were transferred to this company I have experienced significant issues that have resulted in me overpaying on loans due to miscalculation and now an erroneous delinquency on my credit report."
5474,I received a letter dated XXXX/XXXX/2016 from XXXX XXXX in the XXXX inviting me to call him with any questions. The number Navient provided was XXXX. This number is not a good number. I was re-directed to call XXXX. This is also a non-working number.
2589,"I would like to settle my debt with the help of a family member. However the amount of my debt is incorrect. Payments from wage garnishment are not credited anywhere, as far as I can tell. We have paid nearly {$10000.00}, but there has been no credit towards my debt. If my wages are going into a bottomless pit, instead of towards repaying my loans, that is akin to loan sharking. It should be illegal."
3879,"In XXXX 2015, I signed up for Direct Deposit to lower my interest rate, they took money out of my account, put it back in, took it out and put it in again When I called them to find the issue, they stated I had insufficient funds. I did not. They then took out the next payment at the end of the month to accrue the most interest as a DEFAULT That is absolutely bad business practice, and I have since ended direct deposit and have paid more than the interest rate to down the principal, yet I am still paying way too much for the loans I took out over 10 years ago I have again requested to lower my interest rate, as ironically, the only bad payment I have is that XXXX XXXX ludicrous practice that disallowed a lower interest rate The amounts were ludicrous that they offered my 6.8 % going down to 6.55 %? XXXX to XXXX. Especially when they take it at the end of the month to maximize the interest? Makes more sense paying it bi weekly with more towards the principal Biggest scam ever I went to XXXX, XXXX & XXXX XXXX"
6371,"I 've had the displeasure of working with Navient since they were XXXX at the start of my collegiate career at XXXX. XXXX ( now Navient ) was the lender they suggested I work with. 

-From XX/XX/XXXX ( graduation ) through XX/XX/XXXX, when I was financially stable enough to begin steady payback, I was only offered Forbearance as a hardship option with capitalized interest on my private loans. Each time, I was told to apply for deferment, only to be denied in favor of forbearance without explaination. Ultimately, this capitalized interest from forbearance added over $ XXXX to my loans over the course of about XXXX months. 
-I was told multiple times by multiple reps that any "" additional '' payment would be automatically applied to principal. I found this to be false, that my extra payment instead was applied to interest. When I called to ask for an explanation, I was told that it should not have happened ... but they would not change the payment I 'd made to correct this. 
-Discussions with reps still offer varied explainations for why I would have differing amounts paid to principal each month since beginning regular, full payments in XX/XX/XXXX. 
-I have never been given a reason beyond "" you ca n't '' when asking to split additional payment toward principal amongst my loans to apply to my XXXX, higher-interest loan. I was told any extra payment that supposedly goes to principal is applied equally to all loans, preventing me from paying down my highest-interest one any quicker. 
-I still do not understand why I have a disbursement listed on my record dated XXXX months after I graduated. This is unrelated to my capitalized interest. 

Eventually, I stopped trying to contact them, and stopped trying to pay off additional principal. It became clear that their reps a ) only had access to the same information I did, b ) that they either had no power or desire to help me and my situation, and c ) that information would change from rep to rep as far as what my options/explanations were. It was not helpful to call someone and have them repeat the information I saw on my screen back to me and offer no insight. If i asked to speak to a XXXX, I would be placed on hold for a lengthy period ( expected ) and then receive the same answers from the reps ( also, expected ). 

It 's unfortunate I can only pick XXXX to "" describe my issue '' in this report, because I 've had trouble with how payments are handled, I do n't agree with fees charged, received bad information about my loans and have major problems with customer service."
7925,"I took out XXXX signature student loans through XXXX in 2006. I have been in school since pursuing a XXXX and will be finished next year. The loans were originally for XXXX total. They are now at almost XXXX due to interest. They are held through Navient. Navient is stating that my deferment period is up and I am in repayment. I told them that I cant pay, as I am in school still. They said I can join a forbearance program put I will have to pay them to join it. I do not have the money to do so. They are offering no other programs. Im stuck and need help."
2120,"Naviant took my tax return this year and I never got a letter stating I was in default. Nor did I get a phone call. I called and they told me I 've been in default for 3 years yet this was the first they took my refund. I live at same address have same phone number and they claimed on XXXX XXXX I told them not to call. I did n't even get a phone call! They lie and make up stuff i asked the kid if he could get the recording of "" my voice "" and he said he could n't. They 're a huge scam and I 'm behind in rent they took all my back pay that I owe to my landlord and I 'm going to be evicted with my XXXX year old son."
5661,"I took out student loans with Wells Fargo to help pay for my XXXX degree. After I graduated from school, I "" paid off '' both of these loans upfront in full, single payments. Months later I get a notification from Wells Fargo stating that I was delinquent on my student loans. How could I be delinquent on student loans that I just paid off?? Their student loan practices are unethical. They are making money by nickel-and-diming me by using these hidden, unfair payment tactics. I never received any "" notifications '' either about the "" status '' of my student loans -- Wells Fargo said that they emailed them to me each month ; this is FALSE. I have never received any such notifications from them. They know my current email address, and I have yet to see XXXX single notification from them about my "" unpaid '' student loans. This is fraudulent, unethical, and greedy. I borrowed money from this institution and paid it back in full, upfront. No partial payments involved, only complete lump sums. Why is Wells Fargo doing this?? I feel violated and taken advantage of by Wells Fargo. They have completely breached their fiduciary duty as a bank. I will be terminating my account with them tomorrow."
4248,College I was attending was n't reporting all the semester hours I was taking to the student loans department. When I raised questions and went to the dean of student services I was lied to and was told different stories. I saved emails claiming I revised a incomplete for a course from last semester and was finishing up that class this semester and it did n't count. I gathered up contradictory emails from the dean of student services and my professor of the class to take to the dean of the college. I scheduled a meeting with the dean. When I went into the building with my evidence that I was retaking the course I was seated in a meeting room. After a few minutes campus police showed up aND trespassed me from campus for 1 year. I was never allowed to finish my degree and hence have XXXX plus dollars in student loan debt. I have proof I was being forced to retake a class from beginning to end. My grades were being changed on assignment sometimes going up sometimes going down. I also have evidence that the reason I had to retake the class was because the professor was n't grading my assignments correctly the first time I took the class.
831,"I graduated school in XXXX borrowing a total of {$60000.00}. I recently took a personal loan to pay off the balance of {$72000.00}. All in, {$39000.00} in interest was capitalized and was added to the principal balance and I paid {$99000.00} principal, and an amount of {$51000.00} accrued interest was also paid, totaling {$150000.00}. For a loan of {$60000.00}, I paid a total of {$150000.00} over the course of under 18 years. I have been XXXX XXXX military XXXX over the last several years, and am currently in XXXX. For the last several years I took advantage of the lower interest rate under SCRA. Even still, I have been paying more than the minimum payment, however, almost all of the payment went towards interest, without making an impact on the principal. Additionally, the allocation towards interest and principal fluctuated month to month. Even though I was paying over the minimum balance, the principal continued to creep up to a point where I would never be able to pay the loans off. For example, I made a payment of {$400.00}, more than the minimum payment, on XXXX XXXX, XXXX. Only {$2.00}"
8644,"mycampuspartners has implemented a new "" convenience fee '' if you wish to pay directly your checking or savings account. There was always a fee for paying with debit/credit card, but now there is also a fee for direct withdraws from your account. The only way to avoid this is to mail in a check, which, in 2016, is a bit ridiculous. This is a pure money grab as they do not incur fees for direct ACH deposits with withdraws."
2518,I attended a school that was closed down just a couple months after I had signed up. The teacher refused to come to school due to their pay being cut as well leaving us with out a correct attendance.. I have tried to explain to Navient the situation. They mention they were unable to do anything I pushed the matter further and have spoken to many of the higher authority which was just circles after circles. They mention they did n't have any information that I will have to contact department of education. I requested my transcript in which information was incorrect I have never signed any paper to withdraw. I had to go through department of guartuneeship. I was forced to pay the full amount unable to settle I am a single mother that is trying to make a better life for my children and purchase a home the only way I am able to was to pay this off. The customer Service was horriable Navient did not report to my credit for two months making my credit go down. After I contacted them after payment they mention they were unable to see my account!
6660,"This loan occur XX/XX/XXXX, when I attend a school that closed in the city that I live and move to another city. The amount of the loan was XXXX, but since then it has gone up to XXXX. I have had ID theft several time, someone stolen my ID from my home in the later XXXX 's, but you ca n't get no police report back that far. Since then, I have had ID theft on my job XXXX. These collection company have wait till I was XXXX years old to wish to take money from my check, I have try everything to get this debt dismiss. I t is more than 40 years old and now the XXXX collection agency are come after me all these years, stating I did another loan, which I did n't. I just want this to go away, I was once told that this had been dismiss only to find out that it had been past to another collection agency. It strange that all these collection agency do is find old student loan to collection on, that should have drop off the system since the school closed in the city I was living in, All thought it open in other city it closed in XXXX, Ca. Due to a XXXX and I because I was on welfare, I was offer a opportunity for a new start. With a job that would get me off welfare, that I could make a good living, but that did n't happen. With in two weeks the schools closed, I got up and walk to like I usually do to only find out it had closed and move to a new city. I did n't have a car so there was n't any way to get to the new city, even thought it was just across the bridge, did n't have money for that. When this loan was with XXXX, I was told tat it had been discharge, Now some 40 years later, I find out a collection agency name Navient/XXXX. has got this debt and is threat to take my money refund, and they did the money I was suppose to get from the government of XXXX XXXX, and told they was apply it to my debt. But it been more than forty years so this should have drop off the system. Now, they wait to you are a XXXX ad want to take your money. I did n't even get the education for the field I was promise, that the funny part, I 'm only a customer service person. The education I was trying to get was for XXXX, which did n't happen. So, I end up work at XXXX XXXX, XXXX, not the job I was told I was going to have to better my life. And, now you want to take my money for a school that did n't even stay open. I have had to work hard all my life to survive and take care of my child with no family just us, and now that I 'm old they are send these collection agency to take my money. There are people out that owe more money for student loan and keep get them put on hold while they are doing other thing, only I 'm trying to do is hold on to my only money that I 'm earning, yes I 'm still working because I ca n't afford to retire due, these collection company always write about taking my money to pay a debt that is n't mind debt. Yes, I need help in remove this debt from my credit report or say it has been satify or that it has been remove. But, to wait till I was XXXX years old to send it to a collection company so can make money off a debt that so old that they are make a big profit, due to the age of this debt is craze. I have wrote to everyone for years only be told that it was erased, only to find out that was true. My name Is XXXX XXXX, # XXXX, SSN is XXXX. I hope after you read this you can help me because I have send so many of these out till it not funny Thanks have a bless day"
3868,"Navient is the servicer to my federal student loan. Per their internal policy, they apparently can not process paperwork for loans on autopay if they decide to process two weeks before the date of an autopay. This stands in complete contrast to their stated commitment to process paperwork in five to ten days of submission. 
As an example, my automatic payments are deducted on the XXXX of every month from my bank. I filed paperwork showing a change in my income levels on XX/XX/XXXX. Despite calling to push the process along on XX/XX/XXXX, Navient internally claimed they were ready to process on XX/XX/XXXX. However, as XX/XX/XXXX is within two weeks of the autopay day of XX/XX/XXXX ( 13 days, to be precise ), they will not consider the paperwork that has been filed until after XX/XX/XXXX ( and up to five business days after that ). Navient also agreed with me that it could be much later than that, as that "" will be the holiday season, and work slows down. '' I am a responsible lender and have made on-time payments in the Pay as you Earn plan for several years. I am shocked that Navient, a private sector company, can not hold itself to a standard to process critical paperwork for months on end. Its client, the federal government, should take action to stop such incompetence."
5826,The loan company called me non-stop on my cell phone and my home phone. It was frustrating because I was paying on other loans and was not able to start paying that loan.
3204,"Per advice with a consumer credit counseling agency, on XXXX XXXX, XXXX I filed for the consolidation of my federal student loans as well as for XXXX. In XXXX XXXX, I was notified that my monthly payments would be {$30.00}, which was higher than the {$0.00} figure my counselor had estimated, but still found that managable. When I signed into my account on XXXX XXXX, XXXX, I saw that my monthly amount was now listed as {$270.00} and some odd amount of change. I called FedLoan 's XXXX number, and I was told that the {$30.00} figure was prior to my loans being consolidated and that I would have to re-apply for REPAYE. By how the information read on FedLoan 's webpage, they would consolidate first, then apply the income-based repayment plan afterwards. After submitting my re-application and some processing, I got notice on XXXX XXXX, XXXX that my monthly payments would be {$100.00}. While I have experienced a {$1.00} per hour pay raise at the start of the year, my counselor has commented that the amount that has been re-estimated should not be nearly that much. Needless to say, I am not very happy with FedLoan and both my counselor and I will be talking to them very soon."
4130,I recently made a student loan payment for {$200.00} leaving about in arrears {$1800.00}. My income based repayment is about {$110.00} per month so I am in the process of catching it up. The issue is the American Education Services debited my bank account for the entire {$1800.00}. When I approved the online payment it said {$200.00} but they do n't send a confirmation email at the time of the payment to prove it is setup for the correct amount and they keep the only records of the online payment. So unless one has the foresight to screenshot the process you ca n't substantiate their mistake. Their customer service refuses to even discuss refunding the over payment. If they will not remedy the situation I will move my checking account to new bank and only pay them via cashier 's checks.
2001,"I was approved under the General Forbearance XX/XX/2016-XX/XX/2016. Although I have documentation supporting the facts from the service provider ( Fed Loan Servicing ) of the approval they are reporting me late for XX/XX/XXXX, and XX/XX/2016. XXXX, and XXXX updated my credit report manually since I provided the documentation and filed a consumer dispute. however each month Fed Loan Servicing is repeatedly reporting the late payments which in return has caused my credit score to suffer tremendously."
2976,"My former loan servicer, ACS, never informed me ( after several inquires on my part ) that i was not set up on the correct loan type ( which would be direct consolidation ) to receive XXXX. I asked several times and inquired to make sure ... i was on the right repayment but not on the correct loan. So, now after paying on my loan for 10 years i now have to start over and i owe XXXX more than my original loan amount."
2665,"I am in repayment on federal student loans administered through FedLoan Servicing. I have been on the Income Based Repayment program, which requires annual re-certification. I apparently missed notice of the deadline to re-certify which I just discovered had been sent to my "" paperless inbox '' in XXXX, at the same time I am typically informed that I may download data for taxes ( note : when a message is sent to "" paperless inbox '', fedloan does not email you notice as to the contents of said message ). The deadline for IDR re-certification was apparently within 10 days of XXXX XXXX, XXXX. I submitted application to re-certify XXXX XXXX upon logging into my FedLoan account and discovering my monthly payment increased from {$520.00} to {$1800.00}. Today XXXX XXXX XXXX, XXXX ) I logged into my FedLoan account again and saw my principal rose from XXXX {$170000.00} to XXXX {$180000.00}. Essentially, I am penalized {$18000.00} for failing to submit an application upon dubious notice. Furthermore, as long as my application is pending, my monthly payments are now approximately {$1900.00} ( from {$520.00} while on IBR ). The only relief I have is a forbearance, which would result in even more interest being capitalized ( i.e. principal increasing further ). I graduated law school in XXXX XXXX with approximately {$170000.00} in debt. Since XXXX, I have made all of my payments as due, yet my principal was on XXXX XXXX, XXXX was {$170000.00} ( I have had XXXX previous forbearances due to my loan service providers twice failing to include my spouse 's debt in calculation of my IDR eligibility, which were later resolved, but resulted in interest capitalized ) and now on XXXX XXXX, XXXX, my principal is {$180000.00}. This is unduly burdensome and may result in financial hardship in the future, including but not limited to, increased payments and interest, increased life of repayment, increased tax consequences should balance be forgiven, and increased debt to income ratio, resulting in inability to obtain personal financing."
1871,I have my loans through Navient. About 2 years ago I was forced to pay a much higher monthly payment then when it was XXXX XXXX I complained to them but it did no good. My monthly payment almost doubled from what it was. Since then I 've been making the monthly payments but it has not lowered my balance at all. According to my tax statement half my payment is going toward interest. I lost my job in XXXX and they gave me a six month deferment but I know that will just add more interest. This whole student loan thing seems to be nothing more than a profit making scam.
7543,"Name : XXXX Loan Company : Navient over the last XXXX years I have been making my payments on time. I got laid off XXXX weeks ago, the company ( navient ) claims that they can not provide me with any relief even though I 'm unemployed. Then I asked them to lower my payment and put me in some sort of program, to do that they say they must speak to my cosigners, these people are elderly, my XXXX is dealing with my XXXX XXXX, my XXXX is dealing with a theft and robbery, my XXXX is on a fix income older lady. They are asking to speak to them during these difficult times. I understand business, but they could lower my monthly payment I 'm just asking for a very small period of time or some sort help. They have nothing left to say except they must speak to my cosigners I told them I could get the information and they dont want that. I asked them not to put me in a program just to lower my payment by {$100.00} I told them I felt confident that I would find a job soon and should have the funds to make the payment and they do not want to help. I spoke to a XXXX and instead of giving me any help he reiterated the initial statement and told me it was unfair to his company that I felt like they were not giving me help. He was condescending and disrespectful to me. They have all the cards, they dont have to do anything to help me because they know if I dont make my payment they will just put me in default. I'am left with taking money from my food, electric, and phone bill to make their payments because I do not want to go into default. I understand business again my issue is that I have been responsible in making my payments I havent made a late payment in that time period. I just want to add my name to this list because I want people to know before they get in a loan with Navient that they will give you a loan but if you ever find yourself in a difficult position they will not help you in any way to make your payment. The only help they have is "" make your payment of go into default ''. People need to know these companies have no XXXX for the people they are supposed to be providing a service to, they want their money and there is no wiggle room. Please research this company before you decide to take a loan out."
6122,"I have {$44000.00} in private loans through Navient. Navient wanted my payment a month to be around {$600.00}. I am a single mom and can not afford this amount. I tried contacting Navient to negotiate a lower monthly payment because of my income situation. They basically were extremely rude with me and told me well I owed them alot money and asked me why could n't my dad pay it because he had cosigned them. I explained to them that again, I am a single mom and only make around {$1200.00} a month and after I pay all my bills, I do n't have {$600.00} to give them. Also, my dad retired and my parents live paycheck to paycheck. They do n't have the funds either. Yes, I know its alot of money and its not my parents responsibility it 's mine. They told me that I needed to pay that amount or I would have serious consequences. They wanted me to set up an automatic payment and they could get my payments down to {$480.00}. Again, I told the gentleman, I could n't afford that amount and again he got rude with me and that was the end of our conversation. Well, they continued to harass myself and my parents by calling multiple times a day and making threats. Even calling on Saturdays and Sundays. Eventually, I was able to get ahold of someone after my loans went into default because I was only paying around {$200.00} a month, which is what I could afford, who worked with me and got my payments all group together, supposedly, and got it down to {$200.00} a month. The phone calls stopped for a little while, but then they started up again. We answered the phone after these harassing phone calls had been going on for a couple months, multiple times a day and found out that the reason they were calling is because XXXX of my loans had n't been put into the repayment plan because supposedly they were the smallest of my loans and therefore, could n't. I did some research and these loans are not the smallest of all my loans, XXXX is but the other is not. Since I did n't realize that these loans were not in my repayment plan, they are way past due. Navient is now threatening to take legal action and try to take my parent 's house away. I do n't know what to do. I realize this is a lot of money and I will pay it back. I just need time and I need this harassment to stop!!!"
169,"I have received absolutely abysmal service from MyFedLoan Servicing. They botched my consolidation process, they overcharged my interest rates, they provide completely inaccurate information from person to person, and they also have botched my recertification for income based repayment plans -- sending me notices to pay astronomical amounts when I have proof that I filed the appropriate paperwork 3 months prior. They are a nightmare."
9957,"I took out two small ( private ) loans through my University directly to make up the difference in a couple of emergency situations. The lending company is called XXXX. Over the past six months, I have attempted twice to send them the lengthy amount of paperwork they requested for me to ask for deferment on my loans due to financial hardship. Both times, I received no notice of them receiving my forms, so I called them again after receiving multiple letters threatening to send me to collections. I was told that my mail did not make it to them and I would have to send it to them another time. They do not accept these documents in any other form besides snail mail. So, as they asked, I sent the documents a second time. I still received letters threatening to send me to collections for past due amounts. Over a month after I sent the forms for the second time, I called them and demanded to know what was going on. This is after they called me multiple times on an "" automated dialer '' to tell me that my account is past due and that I will be sent to collections, and that I had been reported to federal credit institutions for my intentional delinquency. They told me that for the SECOND TIME, they did not receive my request for deferment. What I also learned is that they illegally gave my father, who is not on the account and has no relationship to the loan, information that he was not meant to have access to, and allowed him to put his phone number as a contact for my account. They claim they have no record of speaking to him, but there is no other way his phone number would be put on my account. I was told that my case was being forwarded to an account specialist. Even after my case was supposedly forwarded, I kept receiving the harassing phone calls, and each time, I told them that they had already broken the law by giving an unauthorized person my account information, and were breaking the law with harassing letters and phone calls despite all my efforts to right the situation. Through no fault of my own, this company is seeking to destroy my credit and destroy my life. I was recently diagnosed with XXXX and am having a XXXX. I may very well be XXXX. This callous, unethical and illegally performing lender should be shut down, if not at least fined into oblivion for what they have done to me and to other students who have fallen on hard times after graduating."
9940,"My sister was told, if she paid this amount ... she would not owe anything else as she is going to school. The loan would be deferred until she finishes college. She paid the {$50.00} but, it was only to stop them from calling for 10 days. They lied! Now they keep calling saying we owe money and that we have to pay it. They are lairs, the money should be put in deferment until she finishes school. They they said. I am the co-signer and they keep calling both of us after we both said stop calling."
108,"I co-signed both private and federal loans for my brother to go to the XXXX ( XXXX ). Within the past year he 's been unemployed and has deferred his loans. I also paid {$150.00} 3 times to place the loans in forbearance. Navient said he would n't have to pay for 3 months but within that time, they continue to constantly call both of us, send us emails and say that payments are late. Twice within the past 4 months, my brother has called to figure out a payment plan or do what was necessary so this would n't affect my credit. The first time was within the forbearance 3 mts, they said he could defer the loan until XXXX but continued to call me and when I answered they told me he never called and that I needed to pay or my credit would be affected. This was the last time I paid {$150.00} and was told a payment was n't needed for 3 mts but then the calls and harassment started again a month later so my brother called and worked out a payment plan of {$400.00} a month. He gave the customer service rep his checking account information so the payment would be automatically withdrawn from his account every month. Now we are being harassed via email and constant phone calls due to payment not being received since XXXX XXXX, 2017. They are claiming that my brother owes {$1200.00} this time to make him current. At this point, I do n't know what our options are since every month its the same run around and they keep taking our money then saying they need more to make the account current. My concern is how much money has been incorrectly accounted for, will this eventually negatively impact our credit, how much extra interest has occurred and how do we get this to stop. To add to this, Navient never documents when my brother or I have called. I 've asked what 's been documented in the account, nothing. I 've also asked for confirmation emails every time I paid {$150.00} and never received anything. Can you please help us? thank you!"
7551,"Navient has permission to contact me through the number I provided them on file which is a personal number XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX. I have not and never will provide them with my business number. However ; they have started to call my place of employment without consent ( XXXX XXXX XXXX. I work in a XXXX XXXX and XXXX XXXX XXXX and need access to my phone for crisis and by them using my phone to take up message space puts the clients I serve at risk. This may also lead to defamation of character. Student Loans are a private matter as companies may not look them up without a social security number, therefore my company should not be aware of my student loan status. This is in regards to student loans from XXXX XXXX XXXX in XXXX XXXX, MA."
4961,Loan amount started at one payment then the payment grew higher and higher. It finally stopped a couple months ago then rose again this month.
531,"I switched over my loans to Naviant, it being involved w/ the Department of Education I thought it was safe. I am now getting charged a much higher interest rate than what it is supposed to be at this present day. I was told that I am paying the interest rate of what it was at the time I got my loans."
7874,"I have been very open and honest with Sallie Mae about my difficulty to repay my loans because I am not making what I expected after graduation. It took me 6-7 phone calls and multiple line transfers to receive what little help I managed to get. I was told by multiple employees of their company that my best and only option was to let my student loans fall into default so they could be send to a collection agency, where I would receive assistance. I have also been told to pay them or "" else. '' I have been told that they "" do n't have to do anything and do n't care about '' my issues with repayment. It is shocking how quickly their attitude changed when my loans entered repayment. When applying for these loans, I was led to believe that income-based repayment options would be available to me after graduation if I was unable to make the original set payments. I am currently using graduated repayment on the loans I have that qualified, but even with this option, the payments are still too high - almost half of my monthly income. I try to be financially responsible and do not want to see my credit and potential future ruined over their lack of willingness to work with their customers."
2550,"I called Navient back in XXXX XXXX and informed them to activate my loans so I could file for Income-Based Repayment and start repaying. They informed me that it would take six months for my loans to become active. It is XXXX XXXX, and my loans are still inactive. According to the website, my loans wo n't be active until XXXX. I feel as if I have been mislead and Navient purposefully left my loans inactive such that they could continue to accrue daily interest."
371,"Good morning my name is XXXX ( XXXX ) about XXXX I attended XXXX and took out loans to pay for my school. Fast forward to now I am currently being garnish by XXXX ( XXXX ) for the past 3years to pay my school loan. XXXXACS ( XXXX ) just sent a judgment to garnish my wages as well US department of Education is off-setting my taxes and they as well as these collection agency XXXX, XXXX, XXXX, U S DEPT OF ED/GSL/ATL, ACS/XXXX are on my credit report with XXXX All are claiming ownership of my loan with XXXX for close to {$13000.00}. How can XXXX collection agency collect on the same loan triple dipping ...?"
6414,"I would like to add my complaint/ experience to the suit regarding the problems with Navient, which financed my students loans until XX/XX/2016 when I was able to move and consolidate them with XXXX. I feel Navient discouraged -- and even falsely advised -- me to over pay to reduce the principal on my loans. I also feel the did not correctly allow me, nor did they offer, to combine loans and did not give any information about changing rates. Finally, Navient would not adjust the loan to allow me to take my father off as a cosigner. As a result, after much communication and discussion, I had to change companies. It was just one thing after the next. Now, it appears I was n't the only one experiencing this. I thank you for this opportunity to share."
3341,"I was a XXXX mother who wanted to take care of my son without using the system. I decided to go back to school and decided to become a XXXX. I chose a school at the time called XXXX in XXXX Washington. 
I did n't realize that XXXX would cost me a arm and a leg and would also put me in a financial hardship that would cause me not to be able to get a home loan in the future. What took place is no one told me that XXXX cost well over the actual cost of other programs at local XXXX colleges for XXXX. XXXX cost was {$13000.00} per student and other colleges which also offered XXXX degrees cost {$8000.00}. 
I attended XXXX and took out loans because the financial rep said that all I qualified for at the time I never attended college and believed her. I started to have hardship because I needed to work and the program only offered a early morning session and a late evening session so I had to ask for a leave. NO ONE told me that taking this leave I would still be responsible for the whole loan! 
When I decided to go back and finish the program the school location changed and so did the name it was now called XXXX! Well XXXX had me go through everything all over again and since I had attended the school in the past I was supposed to get a huge deal NEVER happened another {$13000.00} plus but I finished and found a job without their help! 
I thought I would be done with these type of schools and lenders lending to these types of schools that lie just to fund THEIR employees and pocket money. I decided after being a medical assistant I wanted to get a CAREER I looked into schools for the working person and found XXXX. I researched and researched being that XXXX XXXX XXXX was a student and Alumni I was like okay this may be a great school. 
Another school that told me you qualify for nothing but LOANS, now I owe {$60.00} in student loans I have my XXXX I only make $ XXXX I am barely making ends meet, I do have my XXXX, however its in XXXX XXXX and NO ONE has yet to hire me with it. I cant seem to offered to pay my student loans, I cant get qualified to buy a house the lenders ONLY see the student loan debt. When I called Navient and asked why was I only qualified for loans when I am very low income they said because of the school I chose to attend. IF this is the case being that all lenders get borrowers information why not red flag and say NO this student should continue to look into higher education that would be more beneficial to them financially. 
I have a degree I cant do anything with and I cant afford to pay anything back I am stuck in one space praying for hope!"
4313,"MY BALANCES FROM MY STUDENT LOANS ARE BEING REPORTED ON ALL MY CREDIT REPORTS WITH A HIGH BALANCE BUT MY CURRENT PAYMENT IS XXXX DOLLARS, BASED OFF THE INCOME DRIVEN PAYMENT PLAN. BANKS KEEP QUESTIONING ME ABOUT THIS AND IT IS MAKING IT MORE DIFFICULT FOR ME TO GET A LOAN BECAUSE OF IT."
1582,"I had an original student loan amount for about {$34000.00} as of XX/XX/XXXX. My payments have ranged from {$360.00} to ~ {$330.00} a month for the past 16 years. I 've asked my loan servicing company for the formula they use to calculate repayment amount and period and they defray the question. My loan has been serviced by XXXX, XXXX, and now, NAVIENT. According to my calculations, using the lowest payment of {$330.00} x 192 months = the result is {$64000.00}. Therefore, according my calculations even with deferements and a forebearance, the original debt of {$34000.00} should be paid up by now with a profit to the loan servicing company of {$30000.00}. Please help! 

Additionally, I have another student loan with an original principal of {$16000.00} which I have been paying off since XX/XX/XXXX at the rate of {$180.00} per month. Hence, {$180.00} x 96 months = the result is {$18000.00}. So once again, according to my calculations that debt should be paid up as well. 
I believe, that the loan servicing practices are fraudulent ; I believe they have reset the loan repayment periods every time the loans transferred from one servicing company to the next. They have also imposed deferements ( which adds interest to the principal ) without my consent even after I 've told them not to and to continue drafting payment from my checking account while in school. 
Please help!!!!! 
XXXX"
7624,"My sister tricked me into co-signing a student loan. She said it would be forgiven by the federal government once she graduated because she was a single mother. I have a XXXX XXXX and can not read well and can not comprehend what I read. My XXXX was a modified one since I could not earn a regular XXXX. ( This is being typed for me by a friend who I have explained my situation to. ) Since I work, I am being pursued for the loan. They loaned her {$30000.00} and want over {$100000.00}."
8167,"I have XXXX separate loans through Sallie Mae since the year XXXX in attempts to get through tuition costs at my University. I have since graduated from my University with a XXXX and currently have a full time job. For a year after graduating ( in XXXX XXXX ) I was on a "" graduate repayment plan '' which caused my payments to be lower and affordable. This XXXX my loan repayments have gone up to $ XXXX/month which I have called multiple ( 10+ ) times in attempts to get lowered as I currently do not make enough at my full time job to afford that much in student loans as well as all of my other bills. The people at Sallie Mae have given me and my cosigners the run around every time we call. I have even tried to explain my income and expenses and my cosigners tried to explain why they were unable to help me, but they did n't care. They 've been hassling myself and my cosigners with 3-6+ calls a day even though I paid {$220.00} out of the {$380.00} on my loans which is all I can afford. Their only "" options '' for me are to either put my loans in forbearance which will put me right back in the same situation I am in now just a year later, or for my cosigners to pay what I can not to make my monthly payments be the entire amount. Regardless of the fact my cosigners are unable to help with the amount Sallie Mae is asking and should n't have to as I can make payments as long as the amount is lowered. I 'm willing to pay less for longer ( which ultimately results in higher interest payments from me, but it 's what I need to do at the moment ) and they said that was unacceptable and I did n't have an option in not paying the total amount they were asking unless I took forbearance. I 'm not trying to skip out on my payments, as I 'm currently still paying what I can and up until the payments got raised I was making every payment in full on time every month. But they refuse to work with me so I can have lower affordable payments and as a result, myself and my cosigners are getting harassed, I 'm getting threatened with collections and delinquency and the possibility of ruining not only my credit but the credit of my cosigners."
2145,"I have a Federal Student Loan and a Parent Plus Student Loan. 
When My son Graduated from College he could n't find a job. 
I have been supporting my son. 
I am employed. I have tried over and over again to pay these loans. Every time I receive an e-mail and they Navient tell me what I have to pay, when I call to make the payment is it always 99 % of the time a different amount than they sent in the email or on the payment slips mailed to me. I have been on the phone for hours trying to get this straight. 
Everyone tells me something different. Whether they are in XXXX or the US it is never the same. I made a payment XX/XX/XXXX for {$330.00} for XXXX loans as instructed and today they told me I did n't pay on XXXX of the loans. And could not tell me what was going on in my account. They asked me to fax proof of my payment. 
I had to request an Administrative Review in XX/XX/XXXX to the XXXX. They said I did not pay but I did pay XX/XX/XXXX. 
Then they sent me an approval for a forbearance XX/XX/XXXX 
When I called no one knew what i was talking about. 
on my credit they have so many late and XXXX loans with Navient. I have XXXX not XXXX. 
All of the late they have listed is not true. When I call to make a payment they always have a totally different amount than what they told me to pay. Not some time but always."
1867,"I have a consolidated FFEL Loan through XXXX XXXX XXXX, XXXX, doing business as ACS Education Services ( "" ACS '' ). ( Lender - XXXX XXXX XXXX ). The original loan in XXXX XXXX was for {$23000.00}. I have defaulted 3 times and enrolled in their "" Rehabilitation Program '' every time to bring my loan back into good standing. I have never went into forbearance but it is listed that I did in XXXX/XXXX/XXXX. It is now XXXX and my current outstanding loan is listed at {$35000.00}. I understand that XXXX XXXX XXXX is under Federal Investigation for Loan Servicing Practices and it appears that I may be one the borrowers that have been affected. I wish I could afford an Attorney, but at this time is not feasible. Looking for any help and guidance possible. Thanks!"
5828,I went to XXXX XXXX after XXXX school and they automatically gave me these loans and now my credit is ruined and I cant get a house and they never found me a job in this feild. I am now in a different feild but the private loans are having to be paid back and I am barely making ends and cant consolidate them to help make it easier. I am paying on them to help from ruining my credit anymore.
33,"I have been a XXXX at an XXXX in a eligible content area and I have repeatedly submitted application to Sallie Mae/XXXX only to be told I 'm not eligible. This has been going on for almost XXXX years and I just get the runaround. First I 'm told that the financing period has expired, or the eligibility period has. When my loan was disbursed and I applied I qualified. After 4 continuous years of getting the runaround the disbursement period did lapse, but that was because they Sallie Mae gave me the runaround. Sometimes it took as long as 3 months at a time to get any kind of response and of course, I was told on XXXX occasions that Sallie Mae lost my documentation AFTER confirming that they had all the necessary documents."
4785,"A forbearance was process on my Private student loans serviced by Navient Inc for the XXXX 2015 to XXXX 2015 time period. Navient reported my student loans as 90 days past due as of XXXX 2015. I contacted the Executive Offices at Navient to update this reporting error and they refused. I 've attached a copy of the e-mail correspondence from the Navient representative which clearly states that a forbearance was processed on my account and therefore there is no way possible I could be 90 days past due in XXXX 2015. 
According to a recent FTC advisory opinion which interprets Section 623 ( a ) ( 2 ) of the FCRA. The issue posed in the advisory opinion is how a lender is to handle a situation when subsequent information updates a report that was allegedly accurate when it was made but no longer is accurate in the present time ( the identical situation I am currently in ). 
The advisory opinion states that the Section 623 ( a ) ( 2 ) of the FCRA addresses the duty to correct and update information by "" furnishers, '' or persons who furnish information to consumer reporting agencies ( "" CRA '' ) such as credit bureaus. In particular, this section requires a person that "" has furnished to a consumer reporting agency information that the person determines is not complete or accurate '' to "" promptly notify the consumer reporting agency of that determination '' and provide any information needed to make it complete and accurate. Thus, on its face, this provision requires a furnisher to provide corrected or updated information to the consumer reporting agency that it had reported to originally. This duty extends to all student loan accounts reported to CRAs, regardless of whether they were accurate at one point, because the section requires the furnisher both to "" update '' accounts as well as to "" correct. '' Navient representatives told me that because the delinquent payments were accurately reported in XXXX of 2015 that any subsequently initiated deferments and or forbearances would not allow for Navient to update reports to CRAs to show that the payments were not late and actually in deferment. However, Section 623 ( a ) ( 2 ) clearly shows that the reports must be updated/corrected regardless of whether they were accurate at one point. *"
3940,I was told incorrect information about my loan and money was not handled the way that I wanted in a timely fashion.
4045,"I am never informed of my dates for changes on repayment plans, I am forced into forbearance although I beg them for an affordable payment plan, after submitting documents I never receive a lower payment and I am again forced into forbearance awaiting a new payment plan which is never given to me or discussed it is decided for me with a payment still above my means in repaying. I have borrowed XXXX, and is not accumulated XXXX + in interest. I am so frustrated with trying to repay my loans at a cost I can afford with no help from Navient. None. My income is XXXX per year gross, XXXX-XXXX-XXXX a month will leave me homeless."
6577,"When I was having trouble paying my loans, they would not lower my payment enough to make it affordable. It was the same thing over again to get a lower monthly payment. The lowest they would go seemed consistent with other people who have loans with Navient. We were offered the same XXXX year replacement plan almost to the penny, seemed like they did not consider income or expense depending on status. I also went back to school for my XXXX and I stated this. They would not defer my loans, they deferred them after XXXX months, hurting my credit rating."
3871,"Navient held my student loans and through advise to take deferments rather than an income based repayment plan My loans balloned to over XXXX dollars. Navient then gave my account to XXXX, a collection agency who demand payment that could not be made, reported my account as in default to the credit bureaus and garnished my social security check. Multiple phone calls and letters trying to arrange a reasonable payment plan produced no results from XXXX. Then XX/XX/2015 my account was mysteriously return to Navient for servicing ; the process started again. I then consolidate my loans with XXXX to avoid having to deal with Navient. Due to their complete and total mishandling of my loans my loans have soared to over XXXX dollars. This has destroyed my credit rating and has made it impossible to buy a house or even a car at reasonable interest rates."
745,They constantly put my account in forebearance or deferent instead of telling me about the income driven program. Which I can have enrolled in years ago.
8871,"XX/XX/XXXX, we submitted a complaint to the CFPB regarding our private loans from Navient ( # XXXX ). My husband is a former XXXX XXXX student and graduated XX/XX/XXXX. There is serious doubt as to whether he took these loans out. Shortly after the most recent complaint, we discovered our college advantage loans were at a XXXX balance. My husband called Navient to discover what was going on and was told they were on a forbearance, although they could not say why. On XX/XX/XXXX, we checked the balance of our private student loans to see where we stood in regards to balance. Again, that balance was XXXX. From XX/XX/XXXX-XX/XX/XXXX, we have received calls from Navient asking for payment on these loans. At this writing, Navient is being sued by your bureau for deception and fraudulent practices. Since XX/XX/XXXX, we have paid almost $ XXXX on these private loans. We still owe over {$39000.00} on them. My husband works XXXX jobs and I work alongside him to meet these obligations. We feel he has more than paid for his subpar degree and due to Navient 's deception, we are firm in not giving them anymore of our hard earned money."
789,"TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN, I AM CONTACTING YOU REGARDING A COMPLAINT I WANT TO MAKE REGARDING MY STUDENT LOAN PROVIDER. I AM AT A LOST FOR WORDS RIGHT NOW SINCE I WONT BE ABLE TO EVEN PAY MY RENT FOR MY CHILD AND ME TO LIVE WHERE WE LIVE NO LONGER SINCE I JUST MADE A {$210.00} PAYMENT TO SHOW NELNET MY INTENT TO PAY WHICH WAS MONEY NEEDED TO PAY FOR MY RENT ON FRIDAY. I HAVE BEEN DEALT A HAND THAT I CAN NOT CONTROL MOST RECENTLY WITH THE LOST OF MY MOTHER WHICH BILLS STILL HAVE TO BE PAID THAT I AM PAYING STILL. I HAVE ATTEMPTED TO WORK WITH NELNET. I SENT RECENTLY OVER THE LAST FEW WEEKS DOCUMENTATION THAT MY JOB WAS SENDING ME TO THE XXXX CLASS AT XXXX XXXX UNIVERSITY XXXX. MY JOB SENT US AN OFFICIAL LETTER WHICH I SENT TO NELNET SINCE I NEED THE DEFERMENT WHICH WILL ALLOW ME TO GET BACK ON MY FEET. THEY HAVE NOT PROCESSED MY REQUEST AND HAVE NOT AT ANY TIME REACHED OUT TO ME VIA MAIL SINCE I HAVE NO OTHER FORMS OF COMMUNICATION. THEY HARASSED ME SO BAD SEVERAL YEARS AGO AT MY JOB THAT I ALMOST GOT FIRED. FOR THE LAST 2 MONTHS I HAVE MADE 2 PAYMENTS IN THE AMOUNT OF {$210.00} WHICH HAS PLACED ME IN A SITUATION TO NOT BE ABLE TO PAY MY RENT SINCE NELNET HAS NOT COMMUNICATED WITH ME AT ALL VIA MAIL AS REQUESTED OF THE LAST FEW YEARS. I AM TRYING TO GET THEM TO APPROVE MY DEFERMENT SO I CAN HAVE SOME HOPE OF MOVING FORWARD BUT THIS HAS NOT OCCURRED. AT THIS POINT, MY FAMILY FRIEND HAS DECIDED TO REPRESENT ME IF NEEDED WITH A COURT CASE SINCE NELNET HAS IGNORED ME EVEN AFTER I SENT OVER XXXX EMAILS TO THEM OVER THE LAST FEW DAYS. I GOT XXXX EMAIL FROM STAFF INDICATING THEY HAD TALKED TO ME WHEN I HAVE NO CELL PHONE FOR THEM TO CALL ME. I USE A FRIEND 'S CELL WHEN NEEDED 1 TIME PER WEEK. I HAVE ALSO ADVISED NELNET THAT MY PAYMENT LIMITATION IS {$150.00} NO MORE THAN {$160.00} ONCE MY DEFERMENT FOR THE 2 YEARS I WILL BE TAKING CLASSES FOR THE XXXX COURSE AT XXXX. I HAVE ASKED FOR NELNET TO HELP ME, HELP ME HOWEVER NO RESPONSE BUT XXXX EMAIL. THIS IS MY FINAL PLEA VIA A COMPLAINT TO THE CFPB AND XXXX REGARDING MY DETAILED HISTORY OF ISSUES WITH NEEDING HELP FROM NELNET. I NEED AND YOU WOULD THINK NELNET WOULD GIVE ME DETAILS SINCE I WORK FOR THE STATE OF FLORIDA OVER 17 YEARS INFORMATION REGARDING THE FORGIVENESS PROGRAM FOR STATE EMPLOYEES. IAM VERY UPSET ABOUT THIS ISSUE."
6800,"I applied for a three month forbearance on XXXX/XXXX/2016 on all XXXX of my loans. I was told that my auto-debit enrollment would be cancelled and my next payment would not be until XXXX/XXXX/2016. Instead what happened was my auto debit was not removed and was charged on XXXX/XXXX/2016. The forbearance then applied on XXXX/XXXX/2016. I was also billed {$150.00} on XXXX/XXXX/2016 to finalize the forbearance, which while agreed upon, gave the impression that everything was set."
1964,"I have told them several times that I have no way to pay this, and yet they continue to harass me. I 've asked for a deferment quite a few times, seeing as I 'm unemployed with no way to get a job, but they have n't done anything but demand money. Now, my grandfather has called me to let me know that now they 're sending him letters, saying they ca n't find me. They know my number, they send me bills all the time at my address. I 'm afraid they 're going to start harassing him like they have me and my family."
7792,"Navient illegally placed a returned payment towards my student loan account stating that there was insufficient funds in my checking account on XXXX XXXX, 2015. After contacting my bank, my financial institution verified that there was no XXXX transaction placed in the amount of {$250.00} towards my checking account from Navient. And now, I am receiving harassing calls stating that I have not made a valid payment towrd my student loan account. In which the the payment was made on XXXX XXXX, 2015, via the Navient online payment site."
2042,My orginal lender was XXXX XXXX then my loans were turned over to Navient at that point various changes occured. I have seen them listed multiple times on my credit report even after asking for a forbearance or deferement. Due to inconsistency and multiple inquires I have been turned down by lenders and my credit score has dropped significantly. the multiple loans for the same amount on the same day is very misleading Furthermore If I contact them as requested and make arrangements why do they still report days later as negative on my credit report
5978,"When I had first graduated and explored my repayment options I was never properly counseled on what may lie ahead of me. I felt like I was guided toward the most common repayment plan without disclosing the costs and benefits. After graduating from XXXX school, without a job in my field, and unable to make my monthly payments XXXX I was counseled to defer my repayment plan. I was never advised to make smaller monthly payments or offered alternatives. My interest rates were never discussed nor were the way my repayment would be applied. After graduating XXXX, taking a year off, then we applying to graduate school and enrolling I had to defer my student loan payments. During the time I did this and called to discuss my student loan options they simply stated I should go inter Department. The loan counselor never explained that my interest rates would continue to grow and I would accrue interest over there as I was in XXXX school as well. I have previously tried to call and calculate a better repayment plan and feel I was never given a direct answer."
7045,"After reading the complaint and lawsuit from XX/XX/XXXX by the US Government, I want to formally voice a couple concerns I have with Navient. 

1. It was not until XX/XX/XXXX that I was made aware that my federal student loans had an option of income based repayment. I had a number of years where the loan was in forbearance and I was not aware of my options. 

2. Navient refuses to release the cosigner on my current private loans. One of those cosigners has been deceased since XX/XX/XXXX. It has been 7 years and no cosigner has been release even though I am on autopay. I have also raised my credit score to over XXXX points during this time period. It is time to release them. 

3. Navient continues to increase my smart option loan interest rate. This rate is over 11.5 percent at this point. Again credit score is going up as well as autopay however they continue to increase."
4399,"I co-signed for a {$6000.00} loan for my son on XX/XX/XXXX. When he failed to make his payments, I paid the loan off in full in the amount of {$7000.00} on XX/XX/XXXX. since that time, I have been harassed by Fedloan Servicing through repeated phone calls and letters that threaten to garnish my wages, report me to credit bureaus, and to assign litigation, even though I have talked with representatives many times by phone."
1944,"I have had my loans serviced through Navient since 2014 and due to my economic hardship and low income, instead of paying {$0.00} for my income based repayment, Navient has charged me more interest and more monthly payments that exceed my spending capabilities. Navient has failed to offer me the right federal forbiddanc and failed to disclose any other rate reduction programs that would have benefited my repayment and credit report. Consequently, this has severely impacted my income / debt ratio which has limited me to consolidate my loans with other refinancing companies. I have had a very hard time keeping up with my payment plans as a resident working XXXXXXXX hours per week while on a resident salary. I have tried countless times to get on the rate reduction program but Navient has failed to call back and respond to my requests."
3475,"My student loans are handled by Navient I am on a fixed interest rate. 
in the last 10 years my payments have gone up twice. 
approximately 60 of my payments have had nothing go toward principal I calculated roughly {$44000.00} paid in 10 years with only approximately {$3000.00} - {$4000.00} going towards the loan. 
I have records of my payment history."
3858,I am XXXX and looking to get my student loan forgiven and I want to repair my credit. NelNet is no help in accommodating my request. I have faxed over the necessary paper work. Everytime I call they always have a wrong address for me from 7 years ago. Thats 7 years of interest thats accumulated. They said they will send a response to the previous address with their decision even though I updated my address in the NelNet website. Help.
2109,overwhelmed in student loan debt can not find a career in the field of choice that pays a decent wage. will eventually stop paying loans to support my family better
4914,"I needed to borrow money via private loans to pay for college. I feel that the banks should have a fiduciary duty to explain what the repayment terms will be and also to better evaluate whether or not the student will be able to repay the loans. I am now in a position where I am really struggling to repay my student loans to Citizens Bank. I work XXXX jobs ( over 80 hours per week ) in order to keep up with my monthly payments and I still struggle. The reason I went to college was to enrich my life and my financial future, not to become a slave to my student debt which is exactly what has happened. I feel that Citizens bank should have never approved the amount of money that they lent to me while attending school, and at the very least they should have at least told me what my payment would be when paying off the loan. I felt they took advantage of me because I was nave and young and simply thought that this is what everyone did in order to pay for school. I have about XXXX in debt with citizens bank and I am experiencing a huge amount of stress and anxiety over my student loan payments. XXXX The amount owed to citizens is in addition to my federal loans, which seem to be much more reasonable ) I work so much that I feel that my health is jeopardized as I work from XXXX at my day job and often until XXXX XXXX 4-5 nights per week. 

Citizens bank is not willing to extend my repayment term or lower my interest rates which could really help me to pay this off at a much more comfortable rate. They took advantage of a young college student, and I do n't know where to turn for help. I ca n't keep working as much as I do. I hope the CFPB can help me. Thank you."
3072,"XX/XX/XXXX To whom it may concern I am writing this letter out of pure frustration concerning my Parent Plus loan with NAVIENT I took out on XX/XX/XXXX for my son 's education. 
I have attached a letter of events that happened to my family which caused me to become delinquent on this loan at different times in the past, however I have continue to pay on this loan. There is no help for me in getting this loan paid off in my life time. The original loan amount was for {$13000.00} and my balance is {$4000.00}. It has gone down very slowly XXXX in 11 years. That is a absolute SIN! 
I call and try to explain to them what happened to us, and I send them letters of hardship but there is nothing they will do to get this balance down. 
I am frustrated to say the least and I do n't know what else I can do but to continue paying on this and seeing the balance staying about the same. 
Help, Here is my hardship, To whom it may concern, Let me explain how I got into this situation. I am married 42 yrs and I have XXXX children. My husband was employed at XXXX 46 yrs and just retired on XX/XX/XXXX. I am unemployed and never thought I 'd be in this situation like this in this time of my life. 
We just completed a short sale on our house in Illinois. We just retired and have no equity in our house due to the horrible hardships we have faced in our past. 
When my daughter was XXXX yrs old she was diagnosed with XXXX. At the age of XXXX yrs old she stared medication to XXXX. She was part of a XXXX. This was XX/XX/XXXX. At the age of XXXX she started XXXX at our home called XXXX. She was XXXX 3 years. For the past 3 yrs she was in and out of the hospital at XXXX, the gas, wear and tear on our vehicles, hotels stays, was very costly. 
At the age of XXXX she had XXXX on XX/XX/XXXX. The XXXX with our insurance coverage was {$3600.00} a month for 3 months with no assistance because we both worked full time in spite of the care we gave our daughter. XXXX. As life went on my daughter continued her education at the XXXX college and then on to a University XXXX at our expense along with student loans from XXXX. During the year of XXXX there were several times of trying to XXXX and more XXXX costing in the thousands. I eventually had to refinance my house to pay off these credit cards. I could not keep up with the monthly expenses. 
At the age of XXXX she had a XXXX on XX/XX/XXXX, XXXX. That meant XXXX, bills got behind, mortgage got behind, and more thousands of dollars for more XXXX. I borrowed more money from my equity and my mortgage goes up and up. 
On XX/XX/XXXX this XXXX with again numerous attempts to save my XXXX which means more debt. 
As of this date XX/XX/XXXX my daughter is on XXXX and having multiple issues over the years. However my expenses have n't changed, the loans are still there and life goes on trying to keep above float. 
As to put more burden on the situation during all of my daughters issues my son graduated from high school and went onto a XXXX. Another student loan was needed. While in School his XXXX with no reason, more medical bills another forbearance from "" Navient '' without telling me the interest does not stop.His XXXX then another forbarence, with interest compilling up!!! I need help with a forgivness on this loan, it 's been very hard to keep up. I have called & asked for help with no prevail."
8635,"The original company that did my two private student loans transferred all of their loans to First Marks Services. Since the transfer has happened my loans were put under the wrong status, as in one of loans said I was in repayment while the other said I am still in school. I am still in school. It took four phone calls and over a month for them to fix this issue. This month I paid the amount that my bill said was due XXXX. My payments are due every XX/XX/XXXX of every month. This month was no different, the website I make payments on told me my amount due was XXXX due by XX/XX/2017. I paid that exact amount several days early on XX/XX/2017 and I look at the website again today on XX/XX/2017 and they have added more money XXXX that they said is due this month by XX/XX/2017. The customer service is of no help and they have yelled at me and hung up on me. I have called 3 times in the past hour and have been hung up on 3 times. They only called back once. The only thing they say is that I should not have made a payment."
7946,"I have XXXX loans with SallieMae. Each are enrolled in auto-debit and have been for more than a year. This is confirmed in my account information available online and has been verified during a multiple calls with their customer support. Despite being enrolled in auto-debt, the accounts do not auto-debit and I receive a call from SallieMae that I am delinquent on my account every month. I believe this practice is intentional in an effort gain more interest on my accounts."
4705,"I cosigned a XXXX study loan for my daughter, XXXX XXXX, in XXXX. It was originally with XXXX XXXX. She passed the XXXX just as the economy crashed and lawyers were not being hired but being released. She started taking court appointed cases in an effort to make some kind of living and has been doing that ever since but barely squeaking by. I have been paying on the loan for 6 years. When it was with XXXX XXXX, I paid {$75.00} a month which was fine when I was employed but once I retired I had far less income, approximately 40 % of what I had been making. Navient took over my daughter 's XXXX loan two years ago and continues to hold it. This past year they let me be in a rate reduction program where I paid {$90.00} a month and more of the money went to the principal. They informed me this year that I no longer qualify because I had opened new lines of credit. XXXX being, the purchase of the park model which we purchased to live in. The other was a credit card that I had opened at XXXX XXXX at XXXX because by doing that they gave me 20 % off of a XXXX gift. I have a small payment left to make to them and it will be completed and I did cut up the credit card. They also noted that we had leased a new car. We had a XXXX truck with XXXX miles on it that needed major repairs. The car dealership took our truck and used it as a {$2500.00} down payment on a car lease. Since we needed transportation we figured this was our best option. Obviously it was not a good idea but at our ages ( XXXX & XXXX ) we ca n't walk. My husband and I have always maintained separate checking accounts and we each have bills we are responsible for paying. My husband did not co-sign the loan with Navient but they told me last week his income needs to be considered in the new payment they are asking me to make which is XXXX. The original loan was {$15000.00} and now it is {$17000.00} and this is after I have paid over {$6000.00} in payments. According to them the loan accrues daily. I wo n't live to see it paid off I am quite sure. I am facing some XXXX with large co-pays, but they say that does n't affect my ability to pay them. I have been managing to pay them {$90.00} per month in a rate reduction program but that has been a struggle. At this point I do n't see that paying them and never having the amount reduced is reasonable."
7995,"I 'm given to understand that the CFPB is investigating Navient. In early XXXX I was laid off, and Navient told me that forebearance was the only option besides a ~ {$450.00} combined monthly payment. I reluctantly agreed. After reading the investigation, I do believe these practices continued after XXXX and may even be continuing right now."
7324,"In either XXXX or XXXX my amount due on my private student loan went up almost $ XXXX/month. I paid it, but it was causing financial hardship for myself ( between my private loan and my federal loan both owned by Navient I end up paying nearly $ XXXX/month, not to mention another loan from XXXX XXXX for $ XXXX/month ). 

I was advised by XXXX customer service representatives that they were unable to assist me, but if I let my loans go into default, there would be options available to me. Against my better judgement, I did n't pay my loan last month as advised. 

When I called today to see what options were available to me, I was told that they were able to lower my payments by $ XXXX/month ( great, awesome ) ONLY if I signed up for automatic debit. I had signed up for automatic debit in the past and had so many issues with it -- from payments being unequally applied to loans, incorrect amounts being debited to unauthorized payments taken out. At this point I asked to speak to a supervisor to see if I could explain that to them and see if they would agree to waive this stipulation. 

Beyond the supervisor being completely rude, I was told the same thing - there is nothing that can be done unless I set up automatic debits. I asked if there were any guarantees or assurances that issues that I 've had in the past would n't happen again if I signed up for automatic debits, and the supervisor got very insulting and surly. I am so disappointed in this company, I am willing and actually able to pay my loans, and have been for the past year or so BUT I can not pay this amount right now. I am feeling so despondent and hopeless after this call with your company. I just do n't know what to do with these loans anymore."
5489,"I contacted Navient many times to find a solution to my extremely high student loan payment. After having a baby they allowed me to put off paying for a short time but then determined that I should be able to pay the $ XXXX/month. My daughter is almost XXXX and I have been paying on my loans for a few months. It is very hard for me as a new college graduate to afford an apartment, car and provide for my new family. Navient will not work with me to lower my payments and it is extremely difficult and frustrating. 
I have big dreams for my family such as owning a home some day and staying as debt free as possible. Navient is a bully when it comes to the student loan crisis. I have {$65000.00} in private loans through Navient."
8215,"I went to XXXX for my personal training. My teachers for my classes were constantly switched, moved around etc. I did not receive what I signed up for at this college. I have been forced to find education within the body of my employer due to the college not teaching me."
8447,"I have tried on several occasions to get Navient to validate XXXX loans. I have asked for proof that these loans in fact belong to me. I have written time sensitive letters, sent them certified mail and Navient has, on several occasions, refused to send me the requested information. In addition, I have requested that while they investigate my claim, that they stop reporting to the credit bureaus. However they have continued reporting despite my request. Many of my requests have been met with simple letters stating that the "" consumer disagrees '' and they have updated my credit report saying the same. They have violated my rights on several occasions as well. They have made attempts to charge off these loans but my credit report still shows these loans as being open despite this status change. Also, the collections agencies, XXXX XXXX, made contact with me stating that they now had ownership of the loans in question. To which I sent a certified letter in XXXX asking for the same validation I requested from Navient. Unfortunately, I did not receive a response until XXXX, directly violating my 30 day request. Also, once they did respond, they did not send all of the requested information for all loans in question. I have tried so many different routes to explain to the credit agencies that Navient is in direct violation of my FCRA rights, however nothing has been done. I am trying to buy a house and these loans are negatively impacting my credit, and have been for a while."
6354,"American Education Services has been harassing me and my co-signers. They have given us misinformation, put a loan into default when there were timing payments being made and in general is grossly incompetent and predatory."
9864,"A lawsuit was filed several months after I had moved to another state from the state of California. Documents were mailed and served to my old address in XXXX. When I was made aware of the suit, I contacted the law office and was only able to speak with case associates who refused to acknowledge that I was not properly served. They have now gotten a judgement and filed for wage garnishment and I was not notified of either. Whenever I call the law office I am told different things and spoken to very harshly and without any respect. I was told they do n't have to do anything because I lived in California when the suit was filed and would not allow me to submit any proof and refused to do anything to rectify their error except make a settlement with me for a monthly payment that I could not afford. I also was threatened with if they remove the lawsuit from me then they would garnish my grandmothers assets because she is a co-signor."
298,"ECMC has continued to file a wage attachment for a debt that was supposed to be cancelled and refunded XX/XX/XXXX. Now these collection tactics are harassment under the law. ECMC refunded me payments garnished in XX/XX/XXXX yet reactivated the garnishment, in XX/XX/XXXX so the 25 year timeline also makes this debt a violation of federal law. Further to prove my claim, they clearly stated that I withdrew from the school in under 6 weeks but the school did not refund me the money or cancel the loan properly. They further sent me a loan discharge form and stopped the collections and REFUNDED me XXXX out of the XXXX garnished. More importantly they claimed all notices mailed to me was to an old address and not the one i submitted to them in XX/XX/XXXX all this to justify this recent garnishment started in XX/XX/XXXX. But they resold the debt to another agency and started collections for a debt they know was not refunded and separation from the school, they do this all without any penalties so the harassment continues and the consumer protection laws are ignored. So, in XX/XX/XXXX and had updated current address and failed to notify properly, again proving that ECMC is attempting to collect a debt they are aware is in error and is not following proper notifications provided by the consumer protections laws. ECMC and XXXX XXXX have both illegally and unethically attempted to profit off me as the result. They have refunded XXXX % of money collected though a wage garnishment proving that they are aware of their internal errors and yet started the process all over again. I demand the cancellation of this loan by enforcing the documents to provided to CFPB, proving i separated from this school. 
I demand the release of this debt now that the time limits have expired by federal law over 20 years uncollected, in error and behind my back. I demand the wage garnishment stopped and settled for the third time in two years due to non compliance on the debt collections laws and the fact that i ( as a child ) followed the withdrawal of the school and never got a refund for the balance of the loan. Note the school was a XXXX school for a 12 month term - had no computers for us to learn on, and no books for us to keep -- so logically i properly withdrew and cancelled but full refund was due!! the paperwork was submitted to ECMC cancelling the loan but yet the garnishment is reopened as of today XX/XX/XXXX for the reason : the school is still opened, ( not an unpaid refund ) when this is totally incorrect, there is not a "" XXXX XXXX school '' active or open in the state of New jersey. This is harassment, illegal and unfair causing financial hardship. Either they forward me the money paid to a school I withdrew from, they acknowledge that the lose claim due to 25 year rule for student loans and/or the cancel the loan due to refund was not paid. These companies should be ran out of business and sanctioned."
8045,Information that was not told to me before the student loan consolidation took took place.
6296,"I have had a student loan with XXXX XXXX now Navient since XXXX. I have always done my best to make sure to pay my student loans. I 've never been the type to purposely not pay them like a lot of people do. Even with their unreasonable payment plans simply because I know it can destroy my credit. After being on the phone this morning for a total of 75 minutes and spoke with 7 different people. There was no resolution and I was hung up because they refused to transfer me to speak with a manager. I called in XXXX XXXX to have my loan reduced as it was about to increase to an amount that I could not afford. At the time I was also in the middle of trying to purchase a home since I was staying with my parents for 6 months in Pennsylvania commuting back and forth to NY. As the rents in XXXX are similar to mortgage payments, it was time to own vs rent. I was told today by a supervisor named XXXX at Navient that because I decided to take on the purchase of my home, that I am able to pay my obligation to Navient. After several minutes of going back and forth with her ; which I do not appreciate a customer service rep dictating my financial needs and obligations. I was simply calling because the monthly payment plan they put me on is not working with my finances. It is extremely counterproductive how we as students who want to pursue a better education to have better lives have to be held like prisoners because we have decided to be better than the status quo and make the sacrifice to purchase a home. To then to be told and penalized by XXXX XXXX because we have moved forward in life. I truly have not had such a problem with XXXX XXXX up until today. I have asked to make split payments throughout the month to make it easier on myself to meet the monthly payment of {$280.00}, I was told this was not possible and could only be done through direct withdrawal from my bank account. I was told that they could not lower my monthly payment any lower than what it was, they were not willing to work with me to find any other alternative solutions stating that was the ONLY solution they had for me. I 've been paying them religiously for years. I am not trying to be unreasonable and not pay ; on the contrary I am trying to find a middle ground that can make all of us happy. I pay, they get paid. I was rudely transferred to whom I thought was a manager and was told was another supervisor who said to think of him as second in command. I find this very insulting and a complete waste of my time after being on the phone with them for 74 minutes. While I know my story is not as horrific as a lot of other stories out there with people who have dealt with XXXX XXXX ; it 's extremely frustrating to me how they are not willing to work with anyone and hold everyone hostage by their terms. I would like a reasonable payment so that I can continue to pay my obligation to them and they can continue receiving their payment."
8805,"I have some student loans through XXXX XXXX, now Navient. I have been trying to make payments with them- but they are unwilling to work with my income. They continuously try and give me a monthly payment that is way beyond what I can afford and refuse to work with me even though I keep telling them that I am willing to pay but that I just can not afford the minimum payment they are offering. For the longest time they told me my only option was to pay {$150.00} to put my loan in forbearance, which only results in more interest. This is a vicious, disgusting cycle that only allows them to XXXX you into owing them more money. This company is preying on honest Americans who work hard and are just trying to pay off the cost of their education!"
6623,i been paying loan for about 10 years hasnt went down payments to high and intrestrate to high.
1938,"When I logged into my Navient account today, it indicated that my account had a late payment balance of {$110.00}. I did not recall making any payments late, so I started investigating. As I looked at the previous 12 months worth of statements and compared it to my payment history, I always paid the amount due. I called Navient, and after some research the representative said that the XXXX amount due should have been {$110.00} more that it was. I explained that when I log in to the website, the amount due is prominently displayed and I must allocate the payments for each loan. I paid the required amount in XXXX, XXXX, XXXX, and XXXX. My XXXX statement does not show any late payments. They said that the audit revealed I owed an extra {$110.00}. They were kind enough to not charge me interest or a late fee for the payment I did n't know I was supposed to make."
4213,"I consolidated my loans years ago to create a fixed rate loan. I was told by then XXXX ( now Navient ) that my rate would never change, signed paper work stating such, and in fact for the past 8 years it has been fixed at XXXX. Now I see that my interest rate has gone up to XXXX with no before hand explanation warning of the change. Navient is telling me that congress sets the rates ... but my loan is not a variable loan ... it is a fixed rate late that I was told could never change."
3300,"I was behind by over a year in payments and was not even aware this had happened. I called Navient to explain to them that I was unable to pay what they were wanting every month and if I had any options in lowering the payment or even a forebearance. I was hung up on. 

I tried again a month later and the best they could do is a temporary forebearance. So I took it. Now my income driven plan is ending so I called to discuss renewing it. I make the same amount of money as last year and was told that I was n't eligible and again I was hung up on. With XXXX dependents with major health issues and a stagnant income I ca n't afford full payments. I need help"
2509,"To start out I have both private and federal student loans for going to XXXX in Arizona. When I first signed up they told me my credits were transferable, they would get me a job after I graduate and help as much as possible with financial aid which at the time sounded like a good thing. Half way through my XXXX program I went to my advisor and asked about going to XXXX they told me my credits actually did not transfer to Universities like they originally promised me. I was very frustrated so I decided to stop at my XXXX degree since I was only a semester away from it. Just for my XXXX degree I am XXXX in debt and that does n't include the money I paid out of pocket since I did n't qualify for some grants supposedly. Now I am going back to school and paying out of pocket since I am scared more student loans will harm me due to debt to income ratio. PLEASE HELP!!!"
8138,I have received 8 calls in the today since XXXX XXXX and it is now XXXX XXXX. this is absolutely uncalled for. I already told them I would make the payment Friday and they advised they do n't do promise to pay. why would you call me 8 times in the matter of 8 hrs. to hear the same thing I have told XXXX reps.
3839,"I submitted applications for Income-Driven Repayment ( IDR ) and Public Service Loan Forgiveness ( PSLF ) on XX/XX/XXXX. Around the same time, my loans were also consolidated. 

The IDR was supposed to limit my monthly payments to 10 % of my monthly income, but my payments were only lowered to about 24 % of my monthly income. I called multiple times to inquire about this, and was ultimately told that my total loan amount was so high that it would not be possible to limit my payments to 10 % of my monthly income. I was reassured that I was enrolled in the PSLF program, however. On XX/XX/XXXX, I called about a different problem, and decided to ask about this issue again. This time, I was told that my IDR application was received but never processed. There was no further explanation. I was told that my initial application ( the one that was received XX/XX/XXXX but ignored ) had expired, so I submitted a new application that day. I was told again that I was enrolled in the PSLF program, though. 

On XX/XX/XXXX, I called to check on the status of my new IDR application. I was offered the option of postponing my current month 's payment until the new IDR application was processed, and I asked if that would affect my PSLF payment plan, since I am supposed to make consecutive monthly payments for ten years to qualify for loan forgiveness. I was then told that I was not enrolled in the PSLF program. I was given a different phone number to call to verify this. I then called that number and reported that I had submitted my PSLF application on XX/XX/XXXX and I provided the fax number I had submitted it to. I was told that, while that was the correct fax number, my application was never received. Again, I submitted a new application XX/XX/XXXX. 

My total federal student loan amount is over {$400000.00}, and I have already made XXXX ; {$20000.00} in payments in less than a year. I am extremely concerned that over the course of multiple applications submitted and many phone calls made, I have essentially been lied to about the status of my applications and the reasons for why my monthly payments are so high. Even if I had not been lied to, I now have XXXX applications that were never processed for unknown reasons - the IDR that I am told was ignored and the PSLF that I am told was never received. I am reaching out to the CFPB because it is impossible for me to advocate for myself when I am not even being given accurate information by the lender."
7891,"I have been paying on my student loan for 7 years now. About a year ago I had spent 2 hours on the phone with a employee to get my payment down. He came up with a plan which I could afford. The next month I got an email saying that my payment was not paid. I was on auto payments. So I called and was told that the information that was given to me about how much I would be paying was incorrect and the gentleman I had talked to "" did not know what he was doing '' I then talked with a supervisor that was so completly rude. He told me that he could not get my payments that low and I was crazy thinking that he could. He then told me that I better accept his offer or he was going to hang up on me and not help me at all. I was in tears as to how he was treating me. He was so incredibly rude and unprofessional. I was XXXX at the time and was about to be a full time XXXX. Which is what I am now. I do still continue to pay my loan at {$270.00} a month. I just needed to share this terrible experience and I wish I could remember his name to this day or wish I would have called and complained at the time, but unfortunately I was tired of spending so much time on the phone with this company. I hope that things will improve with Navient and they will have supervisiors that are more professional. Thank you for your time."
8592,"This was a charged off loan by ACS. After XXXX plus years of payments no monthly bills were sent to the correct address and no phone calls by them occurred asking for payments. They had cell phone numbers for my son as the recipient of the loan and my self as the cosigner. 
We were never contacted received no default notice. The only reason we are aware of the charge off is because of a credit report that was pulled in the last two weeks. I am more than willing to pay what is due but in the same token I have been personally damaged by erroneous filling by ACS to the credit bureau."
8008,"My complaint/report regarding XXXX ( XXXX ) loans for my daughter that attended "" XXXX XXXX '' in Missouri and Navients XXXX previously XXXX XXXX XXXX business procedures : e-mails/contacts I receive with subjects like : "" Your Navient account information '' I get frustrated because it is very difficult to tell when I am receiving "" VITAL '' information when a person is getting inundated with an overabundance of un-necessary contact. For example, because our daughter has "" XXXX '' loans with Navient for her term in college, I received XXXX e-mails ( like the one below ) on XXXX XXXX, 2015. All looking the same, with NO critical account number, account identification, or CONTACT information XXXX phone, reply e-mail, etc ) for the Navient "" branch/office '' the information is being received from, in the body of the e-mail. 

I am the CO-signer of a loan, NOT the loan holder. I am WANTING my daughter to be a responsible adult and handle her finances. As a co-signer, I would like to be notified when there is a POTENTIAL problem ; however, I DO NOT need or want to receive every PROMOTIONAL piece of information. Nor do I want to be contacted AFTER it is too late to do anything. 

Due to the LARGE Number of "" CONTACTS '' from NAVIENT ( and previously owned "" XXXX XXXX '' ) over the past 10 plus years, resulting in UNREASONABLE contacts to my daughter, QUESTIONING "" is the bill paid '', "" are you having financial problems ; '' and having her let me know, she does n't know WHY they 're contact me : "" no late payments, '' "" just made a payment, '' she "" registered for a program, '' she "" just checked and they said she is STILL in the program, '' her "" account is set up for automatic payments, '' etc. 

After years ( XXXX ) of several missed "" computer '' generated phone calls, 20 minute plus "" holds '' on return calls ( some with successful contact and some not ), checking and re-checking with our daughter for verification and accepting the answer received from whomever ( Daughter/Navient XXXX answers first ; a person gets used to receiving the un-necessary contacts, the same explanation from the kids, and then it becomes shocking when it turns out, the information ( from Navient ) shared was incorrect, and now there is a report filed and a "" ding '' against both our daughter and my credit. 

Something needs to be done with the way this company 's policy/way of doing business ( which matches the previous owner-XXXX XXXX ). Especially, when a person considers : a parent finds out the people providing the loan are the ones SUGGESTING to young, struggling graduates, to "" let their account go delinquent for 3 months '' then NAVIENT can look into considering dropping their monthly payments to make it more affordable. What responsible adult / finance company would make such suggestions!!??? 

I am reporting Navient for : 1 ) inappropriate/abusive contact ( XXXX e-mails in XXXX morning- XXXX for each account ), repeated Computer generated contacts to cell phones, long wait times ; 2 ) Abusive use of accounts in dealing with reports XXXX XXXX counts "" dings '' -actually XXXX for this situation due to the fact they counted the XXXX accounts delinquent for two months ). 
3 ) In appropriate "" encouragement '' of allowing accounts to default - for the purpose of extending loan life and debit to increase income for their business. 

Just so you know, our daughter contact Navient for consideration of different programs because she was XXXX and another monthly payment. She thought she had her finances/situation under control when she "" enrolled '' in XXXX of the suggested programs. Even though she, provided the required check account information, and she checked in monthly with Navient to verify she was still enrolled in the program, the end result was XXXX us having reports on our Credit Scores. 

Again I repeat, I feel very STRONGLY about the fact that SOMETHING NEEDS to change."
1129,"My student loans were transferred to XXXX from XXXX. I had a rate reduction to 4.3 % while at XXXX for setting up auto payment at graduation.. After the transfer, XXXX set my rate back up to 6.8 %, I have the letter showing the terms of my loan with the rate reduction. I have called several times, they say they ca n't change my rate back to 4.3 % because they did n't get my bank info from XXXX. I have been trying to set up auto pay since XX/XX/XXXX over the phone and by email, it is now XX/XX/XXXX, and my interest rate is still set at 6.8 %. Their customer service is among the worst I have ever dealt with, never rude, just incompetent."
52,"American Education Services refuses to delete a negative entry on my credit report even though they were not the legitimate servicer of my loan in XX/XX/XXXX nor were they the granuty of the loan. I have disputed this entry with them over 5 times in 2 years and each time AES comes back with the same old illegal excuse that they were in charge of my loan in XX/XX/XXXX and they continue to make adjustments to the number of days of delinquent payments and make remarks "" This loan is permanently assigned to the Government ''. They know exactly what they are doing, this is not necessary because I consolidated my loans in XXXX under the Federal Government program so I could handle my loans more efficiently. They are claiming that they were the servicer of my loan in XX/XX/XXXX, when actually they were not the servicer of my loan. If AES was a servicer it was not listed on anything to verify their status according the XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX web site, the government web site that has all the information listed about loans and the amount that is owed. XXXX, who is XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX was and is the servicer and grantor of the loan in XX/XX/XXXX. So, what gives them the right to continue to report this negative entry on my report. They were listed in XX/XX/XXXX, but I went bankruptcy then, after bankruptcy XXXX were listed as the guaranty of the loan. I spoke to XXXX concerning this AES reporting and the person that I spoke to told me to call them which I did. AES allows customer service personnel to handles credit reporting, someone who does not have skills pertaining to other people 's life. I ask to speak to someone who is Supervisor or XXXX title. The lady I spoke too, XXXX, a Superior, but she did not say what kind of Superior, but her badge no. XXXX, denied that they are still reporting, but they are because as of XXXX/XXXX/XXXX, I received another refusal about deleting this entry or removing the remarks on my credit report from XXXX through email. She said they are only reporting because I filed a complaint, but if I do not complain, that means that everything on my report I agree with and I do not agree with them holding my report hostage when they are not responsible for servicing nor the grantor of the loan."
251,I need for fedloans to update my payment history on my credit report. my loans was in the deferment status
2027,"I have been out of school for quite some time. At the time, my father was handling my loans, and he did not understand what he was doing. He had access to my social security, and my only job was to go to college. He was n't given correct information, and they also over borrowed and gave him more than what my school actually cost. He truly believed he was helping me by taking on such risky loans, and I received over XXXX calls to switch my loan servicing company until I was scammed into what I am paying right now."
5604,"I have been working hard towards keeping my credit in a good place and am currently trying to power pay on the Private Student Loan I have with the highest interest, while they ( the other XXXX I have ) are in deferment. The last time I checked my credit score was about XXXX and I contacted First Mark ( the private loan holder ) to see if I was able to refinance and they told me no. I just feel like 8 % is a lot for me to be paying in interest and was wondering if there is in fact a way to lower this loan so the extra payments I am paying will be worth it. Also, they told me that there is no way to put those extra payments ( After making the monthly payment ) directly towards the principle. I 'm also not sure how true this is either."
2213,"My complaint is against FedLoan Servicing. On XXXX/XXXX/XXXX, I received my annual notice that my Income-Based Repayment plan needed to be re-certified. I immediately sent the paperwork in. On XXXX/XXXX/XXXX, I received notification that I submitted my paperwork too early, and that my IBR re-certification would not be evaluated at this time. I called FedLoan to get clarification and the representative told me I would not need to re-certify until sometime in XX/XX/XXXX. 

On XXXX/XXXX/XXXX, I received notification that I was being removed from IBR because their records showed I never re-certified. This obviously was incorrect because I had re-submitted my paperwork in XXXX XXXX. I called and the representative ( XXXX ) told me that FedLoan had made an error and that my re-certification application should in fact have been evaluated back when I submitted it. He instructed me to re-submit the application right away and he suggested I enter a forbearance for the month of XXXX XXXX so that I would not have to pay the higher monthly payment ( {$1500.00} ) for that month. I asked XXXX what would happen to the interest that accrued during this period, specifically whether any of it would get capitalized. He told me that interest would continue to accrue but that it would not capitalize. Based on XXXX representations I agreed to the forbearance. 

XXXX also suggested I contact my bank to try to put a "" stop payment '' on the automatic payment that was scheduled for XXXX/XXXX/XXXX. I did that, but my bank was unable to put the stop payment in place in time. The money was extracted from my account on XXXX/XXXX/XXXX. 

Also on XXXX, I received a notice informing me that all of the interest that had accrued on my account ( about $ 11k ) would be capitalized at the end of XXXX if I did not pay it all off. This directly contradicted what XXXX had told me. 

On XXXX/XXXX/XXXX, I called FedLoan servicing again to discuss my account. I spoke to a representative named XXXX ( ID # XXXX XXXX. I asked XXXX about the interest notice and explained I felt the XXXX in interest on my account should not be capitalized because XXXX told me that not would happen and because the forbearance did me no good anyway ( because the funds were extracted from my account by direct debit ). I explained I felt I was getting hit with an $ XXXX penalty. She told me that interest capitalized on my account every quarter and that the forbearance would not result in the interest being capitalized. Against my better judgment, I believe XXXX. 

On XXXX/XXXX/XXXX, I received notification that the $ XXXX of interest had been capitalized. This directly contradicted what XXXX representatives had told me. Further, it would not have happened if FedLoan Servicing had properly re-evaluated my application for IBR re-certification in the XX/XX/XXXX. I want my account to be set so that the $ XXXX that was capitalized is returned to being interest. I carried out my obligations with respect to submitting re-certification paperwork, and FedLoan Servicing negligently serviced my account and punished me for their errors."
6300,"I was forced to take out private loans in order to continue or finish my degree. XXXX XXXX had already maxed out, so to speak, the amount of money I could borrow from federal loans and the rest had to be loaned from private banks. Nearing graduation, about a week before graduation, I received a letter from XXXX stating that I owed an extra {$14000.00} that was credited to me by the school, and that I had to pay said balance to be able to graduate and receive my diploma. I used my life savings and wrote them a check for {$14000.00} and gave it to the finance department. In the end, I had all my transcripts for graduation but my diploma was not provided. I walked my graduation with the worthless transcripts in my diploma folder. I never went back to pick up my diploma as it was worth absolutely nothing. My resume lists a XXXX XXXX from XXXX but no employer or future employer has ever recognized me as having a real XXXX XXXX. At this point it hurts my reputation to put XXXX on my resume as education. 

The debt has crippled me financially and ruined my credit while lowering the possibilities of gaining approval from potential employers. I feel like I 've missed out on a decade of my life. In retrospect, I would have rather attended a XXXX college and transferred to a regionally accredited XXXX College instead. XXXX predatory behavior and even harassing phone calls asking to come back to school were hard to ignore and I and many others were stuck in a program that would eventually lead to crippling debt and no value whatsoever. I was already working in the field of study before starting XXXX and I did not learn anything new during my entire program. In fact, the material and books in some cases was about 10-20 years old. The books were not real text books, they were written by alumni and seemed to be published by XXXX own publishing companies. 

XXXX educators were often unqualified to teach. Many instructors were previous grads who were trying to pay down their debts to XXXX themselves. The computer labs and equipment were outdated and in most cases did not work at all. Anyone who attended classes was given a passing grade. XXXX admitted anyone regardless of mental capacity. There were people in my classes who could barely read out loud from a book. 

To conclude, XXXX XXXX was an elaborate scam. They scammed the government and taxpayers as well as individuals hoping to better their futures and contribute to the economy and workforce. XXXX XXXX was a lucrative investment only for it 's shareholders and wealthy executives, education was the least of their priorities."
9757,"There was a lawsuit against the school that I attended and they are closing the school down as a result. I was paying my loans at the minimum that I can afford and now the loans are being serviced by a different company. I can not afford to pay the loan at this time and I am receiving notice of default. How can I resolve this issue when the school is being sued for the way they talked students into taking the loan in the first place, I should have never been approved because I was not working at the time and they asked if someone could help me pay it. The person that was helping me is no longer in my life and I am stuck with the obligation when he agreed to pay it."
3855,Each year I apply for an Income Driven Repayment Plan my request does not go through and it shows that I will have to pay a significantly higher amount per month. I then have to call and reapply for the payment plan I want to take effect. I was also put into forebearance this past year when I should not have been.
8281,"I recently graduated from XXXX and as such have close to {$500000.00} of debt. Unfortunately, being a XXXX person from a XXXX class family, the only way to achieve higher education is to borrow. There are no scholarships or grants for the white middle class. My loans were transferred to Navient. The issue is that they consistently send communications via email and also will tell me when I speak to them on the phone, that my payments are up to date. My dad and I started calling to make sure we confirmed with them because we kept getting charged random late fees. There will not be any payments due and suddenly in the same week there is a past due payment with late fee. I received an email on XXXX/XXXX/15 that my account was up to date and my next payment was due XXXX/XXXX/15. The next week I have 20 missed calls from an unknown number and suddenly they are past due for 3 months, and I owe {$1600.00} when I just paid {$3000.00} to stay current up until XX/XX/XXXX. IT MAKES NO SENSE. I 'm tired of being taken advantage of by these loan companies. First XXXX XXXX, now Navient. Now, my payments are suddenly {$3000.00} per month. As a first year physician in training I make {$2300.00} a month. How am I supposed to afford $ 3000 monthly payments now? They offer no assistance or flexibility. I went to XXXX because I was young and naive and wanted to help people. Now I 'm just getting XXXX. I have terrible credit, will never be able to buy a home or have enough money to have children until I 'm XXXX. I had no idea there was a such thing as poor XX/XX/XXXX."
1976,"Contact Navient about loan which was from 2001, statues expires, got no more than XXXX in loans, they say I 0we XXXX. They garnish my last 4 years of tax returns. Also I included in my bankrupty adversary was included for loan. Sent them a copy of bankruptcy discharge, they would not accept."
6174,"The company handling my private loan is called XXXXGreatLakes and I have recently noticed that they are not applying my payments correctly. I have a monthly payment of {$77.00} that is due on the XXXX of each month and I end up paying {$100.00} instead to pay down the balance or so I though. What this company has been doing is using that extra amount and setting it aside labeling it as "" Paid Ahead '' total thus preventing me from quickly reducing the balance. I have contacted them several times now and each representative has refused to apply that past extra amount and all future excess payments to my balance. Right now there is nothing that I can do but ask for your help. I am already burdened with a massive amount of student loan debt and this just adds to the feeling of hopelessness."
1313,"My loan went into default, I received a letter from XXXX XXXX XXXX in XX/XX/XXXX I believe. I was n't sure why they had my loan, so I called and they explained they had my loan. I then asked if they would send out another letter. I received the letter XX/XX/XXXX. 
I then called to make arrangements. The women on the phone hung up on me when stated I needed to go to XXXX and get a card so that she can take the money from ( because my bank accounts are being garnished ) and I will call her back. I felt this was very rude and was n't sure if this was a legitimate company. In XXXX I sent Navient through fax my financial information and a letter stating I wanted to make arrangements. I heard no word. I then received a letter from Pioneer. I called them and mention I do n't know what is going on because I have letters from XXXX different companies. I called pioneer again today at first I did n't want to submit the information they were asking but I realized I called them and not them call me asking for disclosure. I then spoke with XXXX XXXX who transferred me to XXXX XXXX. When we got to the part about my phone number I stated I was not taking my phone number off the do not call list because I will sue if the call my phone to much. I also stated they could contact me through email or mail. She stated she could not make arrangements with me if I did not release my phone number. I am writing to you because I believe it is my right to have a payment arrangement without enduring the harassing phone calls. they are blocking me from paying my bill. Please assist me if you are able. 

Thank You XXXX XXXX"
5601,"We have sizable private loans. They have a procedure where as the principle decreases so does the payment. The effect is the loan takes longer to pay off. I complained about this numerous times and years ago was told to send in extra payments. Well, I did that and the same thing happened. Our loans began in 2005 with a total amount of {$120000.00} ( this was after a consolidation at some point so, the original balance may have been higher ) and the payments were in the XXXX range. Today the balance is {$65000.00} and the payment is {$870.00}. I have been sending in extra payments of {$250.00} a month for many years, I do not know when it began anymore. I am aware that if the rates go up, the payment goes up, no problem. But for many years the rates did not increase, but the payments dropped. There is a total of XXXX loans and as interest was supposed to increase, I raised the extra payment to {$260.00}. The intent was to have at least {$1000.00} go to principle. Last month the rate on the largest loan increased XXXX % and the payment decreased {$7.00}. So I paid {$15.00} more to get an {$8.00} benefit. Again I called, again I spoke to 3 three different people and got no where. All I wanted was to be able to set a payment that would be the constant, but if the rates increased, happily pay the additional. They ca n't do that and I can not believe it can not be programmed. In 12 years, approx have the loans were paid. If they left the payment where I requested at {$1100.00} a month my son would be in a better position. They also do not allow you to make the extra payments directly to principle. The payments get allocated. They money is debited directly from my son 's checking account and there has never been a missed payment in all these years. I do n't believe that I am wrong in requesting a minimum payment. They do nothing to solve the problem except say make extra payments, that is their solution, and then they still prolong the length of the loan by lowering payments. Their procedures hurt the consumer and benefits Navient. This is not fair or from my view, moral. Thank you for any help you can provide."
909,I am showing as XX/XX/XXXX and XX/XX/XXXX. If I was in a bankruptcy XX/XX/XXXX to XXXX XXXX I should have not been reported. Navient is saying XXXX reported me and XXXX is saying they did n't so who reported me. Both companies are trying to say the other reported me and neither will correct my credit reports
3788,Been paying NAVIENT every month for years yet they fail to credit my account and report me in default every month -- -totally destroying my credit reports plus never responding to my queries. No payments forwarded to my school debt they take my money and keep it for themselves -- -RETURN MY PAYMENTS AND MY CREDIT!!!!!
9380,"Husband defaulted on student loans, Allied Interstate began garnishing 15% of his wages. They stated this will happen for XXXX months & on top of that we pay additional XXXX towards loans. It has been XXXX months with garnishment, we have sent all paperwork requested in (even though they sent us wrong form, stated they lost items we sent in, etc.) now that garnishment is supposed to end, they state that they want us to pay XXXX per month instead of XXXX on top of the 15% of wages. We cannot afford this. We can afford the payment, but not along with the hundreds of dollars each month they are collecting - none of which is going towards the student loan balance. They want us to basically start over with garnishment for another XXXX months, but paying  higher additional amount per month on top of garnishment. Now they sent us a new letter as if we were starting over. We are supposed to sign it and return it or else they said we won't be able to rehabilitate the student loans."
4282,"I went into forbearance on XX/XX/XXXX and it was to last until XX/XX/XXXX. Today, XX/XX/XXXX, I received a letter from a collections agency stating that Navient turned me in for failure to pay. When I called Navient today, all but XXXX of my loans were put on forbearance. I was under the impression that ALL of my loans were in forbearance. Now there is likely a hit on my credit report, so I 'm pretty upset. I 've worked very hard on keeping a decent credit score and also maintained regular payments until I became ill. 
The lady I spoke with stated that she has fixed everything, but I honestly do n't know. 

I have also tried to change my last name several times, but it has never updated, so my married name that is on my social security card is not what is on my loans. I 've sent paperwork signed and mailed with required proof as well as spoke with XXXX XXXX staff regarding this issue. 

I have attended several colleges due to my being a military spouse. 
XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX"
8824,"I spoke with Sallie Mae regarding my student loan repayment options and requested an alteration to the length of the loan to reduce my monthly bill. However, they did n't even think for a second, and simply said "" No, we do n't do that. You owe what is on your monthly statement. "", then asked if I wanted to make a payment. When I said that I did not want to make a payment at that time he said have a good day and hung up. Because the federal government has decided to let student loan providers XXXX anyone trying to better themselves they apparently do n't care at all about their clients once they have you on the hook. They know that there are no available options for people like me, legal or otherwise, to even get help on handling this debt. I did n't ask them to forgive my debt, and I was trying to offer a way I could pay them back, but since they are above the law they know they can just tell me to XXXX and simply garnish my wages. I am now in a situation where I am having to consider filing for bankruptcy. If Sallie Mae could work with people there would n't be so many individuals in default on loans, but I know I ca n't do anything about this debt, so I have to see if I can do something about other debt."
4532,"After making a sizable payment ( {$12000.00}. ) in XX/XX/XXXX, my next statement noted that the next payment was n't due until XX/XX/XXXX. Even so, I have continued to make payments. I am trying to find out why the payment due date for moved so far in advance, what my balance was after the XX/XX/XXXX payment, and if they were still adding interest even if the payment was n't due for another 4 years. I would also like to know why I was n't given any choices or explanation for the changes after the XX/XX/XXXX payment."
8808,I had gotten a private loan through my school but than the school shut down and the company is forcing me to pay the loan back but I was n't given the education I deserved cause the school closed down so why should I pay it back.
44,I attended XXXX XXXX College in XX/XX/XXXX-XX/XX/XXXX. I finished the program. Going forward with my education I was unable to use the school information. Nothing transferred to other schools. I was lied to constantly about being an accredited college. I found out that they used students financial aid by documenting that we received bus passes etc. I owned my car so I never needed a bus pass! Please help guide me in the right direction.
8660,"I paid off a XXXX XXXX student loan in 2008. I was not aware that an additional interest charge had been posted until some years later when I was contacted by Allied Interstate LLC who stated I owed {$300.00} ( the amount I had paid off was around {$600.00} ). Sometime in XXXX of this year I received a letter dated XXXX XXXX, 2015 that offered a settlement amount of {$45.00} if it was paid within 40 days of the date of the letter. I mailed a check to them on XXXX XXXX which they cashed on XXXX XXXX. That same day Allied Interstate LLC sent me another notice stating that I was still to pay the remaining balance and no mention of the settlement that was offered in the XXXX XXXX letter. They are refusing to uphold the terms of the settlement that they offered of their own free will and accord."
6654,"I currently have about {$3000.00} in temporary credit with XXXX XXXX XXXX. I graduated in XXXX 2013. The temporary credit account is being serviced by a company called UAS XXXX. I have made multiple payments and then got laid off from my job about a year ago and used a forebearance on my account. I found work quickly and have attempted to make a payment on my account for the last year. Every time I call the customer service department the representative said that they ca n't understand me and that I should make a payment online. So, I try that and it tells me that my account information is incorrect and can not be verified. However, in the meantime they continue to call me no less than 5 times per day. So, I attempt to pay my debt and it seems like they do not want my money. It 's absolutely ridiculous. I called customer service last week and they said we could work something out. They emailed me paperwork that I printed, completed, and mailed back. I get an email tonight saying that the payment arrangements were denied and that someone would contact me from another company that I have never heard of. This company is horrible and so is the institution they represent."
8489,I was contacted by American Education Services on XXXX consecutive days before XXXX. The XXXX day was contacted at XXXX and the XXXX day at XXXX XXXX. I called back on the XXXX day and talked XXXX guy that was rude and was stating well thatis what happens when you are delinquent. I asked to talk to a supervisor who was equally not helpfuul and was telling me that they are in Pennsylvania and they are XXXX hours ahead of my local time. So she said they had no control over the automated calls.
4361,"I owe past fees on my student loan account with Navient ( XXXX ) in the amount of {$320.00}. I received instructions that I could submit a separate payment and designate the total to go to either the fees or the principal balance ( since this was a separate and extra monthly payment ). When I sent in the extra payment for the amount mentioned above, a portion of that payment went to satisfy the balance mentioned above and the rest went to interest ( about XXXX % of the payment ). When I called to request the payment to be re-allocated to the fees balance, I was told that this was not possible, that the interest needed to be satisfied first. I feel that I was mislead by the instruction initially given to me by Navient, by the Navient website for only mentioning that I owe the {$320.00} for the fees, and by the payment specialists not being able to satisfy my request. This was an extra payment that was submitted. The interest should apply to the next time I make my monthly payment. This feels like Navient is double dipping when I make extra payments to catch up to my outstanding balance ( in a good faith effort ). Everything I looked at that showed what remaining past due balance I had did not mention that a portion of my payment would go to interest. Had I known that, I would have adjusted my payment. That 's why I feel I was mislead. I 'm requesting that the portion that went to interest be re-allocated and fully applied to the past due fees balance. Thank you for any assistance you can provide."
2837,"My loan servicer is Navient and these criminals are mismanaging my payments. I am SAVING MY MONEY ELSEWHERE until I can pay off the entire loan at once, as making advanced payments with Navient does nothing for you as the borrower. This is unreal and literally criminal."
1339,"I called ConServe to pay a loan I currently have in default with recent spike in discretionary income I 've received. The person I spoke with informed me that the call could be recorded and it was an attempt to collect a debt. I let them know I wanted to make a hundred dollar payment. Following the successful entering of my payment information over the phone I asked for my balance. The informed me it was upwards of {$1800.00}. I asked what fees did they add when they received the loan from XXXX. The person on the phone said {$28.00}. I informed her that before XXXX sent my loan to collections the balance was {$1100.00}. She told me that the interest accrual was 5 % a day. I ended the phone call and immediately called the Consumer Finance Protection Bureau hotline to inquire whether those actions were lawful. The person I spoke with informed me that they could n't dispense legal advice but that the interest on a perkins loan was fixed at 5 %. I asked what I should do if I were looking to file a dispute. The representative informed me to contact the company and have them send me their policy in writing. I ended the call and called ConServe back and asked to be sent the policy. The woman I spoke with became very irate and aggressive, and almost shouting said they had no policy and that the interest and extra fees tacked onto the remaining balance were set by the University XXXX Georgia. I have no idea who to believe and need clarification as to where over {$700.00} in fees came from and whether or not this addition to the principal was lawful before I pay so much as a dime to an independent loan servicer."
894,"Have tried to set up payment arrangements within my budget with Navient and they are not willing to work with me and do NOT have any GOOD options that there clients have to choose from unless you do n't have a job, a teacher and or government worker and I am neither.By me not being able to make there payments due to my Budget my credit score has fallen XXXX points.Have tried working with them and giving them all my Bill/Budget information and they still will not work with me."
8513,"I have about {$40000.00} total in private loans through Sallie Mae. My interest rates range from 9.125 % -9.875 % ( averaging to about 9.5 % ) among the XXXX loans, resulting in payments of $ XXXX/month. Unfortunately, I only make XXXX a year as a XXXX and I also have federal loan payments to make along with rent and insurance, so {$550.00} a month is pretty unmanageable. This issue with Sallie Mae is that I brought this information to their attention and tried to get them to work with me in some way, but they stone walled me at every turn saying they can not do anything for me, except a 0.25 % decrease by signing up for auto-pay. I asked if I could be transferred to another department ( collections ) and they stated that they can not transfer me and I ca n't even speak with collections "" until my account is delinquent ''. I even tried to extend the length of my payment period, but again I was met with a firm and absolute "" no ''. I have attempted to refinance my loans through other agencies, but my debt/income ratio is too high, so I am essentially stuck with Sallie Mae and their bullying. Overall, I am between a rock and a hard place in that Sallie Mae has backed me into a corner and wo n't budge unless I become delinquent resulting in late fee buildup, interest accruing on the loans, and sacrificing my credit score. Even if I do become delinquent I have no reason to believe Sallie Mae will do anything other than destroy my credit score and assess fees to tack onto my already difficult payments."
8352,I filed a complaint ( Case # XXXX ) against American Education Services last year for not working with me on my private student loans. Now I 'm in an even worse position due to the same problem. XXXX of my loans have gone into default. This company is terrible at coming up with a solution for account holders to pay. I 've called several times and been dismissed by customer service reps and supervisors saying there 's nothing they can do. They forwarded my accounts to a collection agency ( XXXX ) that lied to me on three occasions saying that if I made a {$500.00} payment that they could negotiate a lower rate for me. Never happened! I am about to be a mother in XXXX and my employer brought the loan default to my attention. I 'm in a position where my loans can be garnished. I 'm disgusted with this company and in need of a resolution. I ca n't even refinance my loans due to these companies destroying my credit score.
3094,"A XX/XX/XXXX graduate, I have been making payments on XXXX direct loans since I began work in XX/XX/XXXX. My servicer was XXXX, but when I enrolled in PSLF, my loan transferred to PHEAA. Since XX/XX/XXXX, I have been continuously employed in public service and have made substantial progress toward the 10 years ' worth of qualifying payments under PSLF. I have several additional loans, so I thought consolidating to have one payment would be convenient. 
Not so : Consolidation is disastrous, which I learned too late. I applied for consolidation on XX/XX/XXXX but saw no disclosure then that all my qualifying payments would be erased. In an email later that day from PHEAA, no such disclosure was made. Nor was any such disclosure in the message that PHEAA sent to my paperless inbox on XX/XX/XXXX ( I opted to receive all communication from PHEAA electronically because mail at my house is unreliable ), which advised only that I had 10 days to cancel. 
This week, I was shocked to open a paper letter from PHEAA, which begins : "" Dear PSLF Borrower, ARE YOU SURE YOU WANT TO CONSOLIDATE YOUR DIRECT LOANS? Since consolidating your Direct Loans will 'erase ' any qualifying payments you 've already made toward the required XXXX for PSLF purposes, we wanted to confirm that you intentionally included the loans listed below on your consolidation application. '' I opened this letter just after the 10-day cancellation period. Erasing my PSLF payments will require another 3.5 years of large payments despite my qualifying public service. A rough estimate is that I will lose {$50000.00}. 
I have spent days navigating PHEAA and DOE in an effort to cancel the consolidation. After finally reaching a manger with PHEAA, I was told that the loan will not disburse until XXXX. PHEAA explained that they have sent to DOE a request to cancel the consolidation, but that it is entirely up to DOE and that PHEAA can do no more. Personnel at DOE, its Federal Student Aid office, its Ombudsman, and the XXXX have all said that there is no such process for DOE 's approval and that it is entirely up to PHEAA. And I find myself stuck in the middle as the clock ticks toward my financial ruin. 
In my conversation with the PHEAA manager, I complained that I never got an electronic notice warning about erasing PSLF payments. He claimed that he was looking at my paperless inbox and could see the notice was sent to me on XX/XX/XXXX, but that I had not opened it. Simultaneously, I was looking at my paperless inbox, and there was no such letter. I took a screenshot of my computer 's display during this conversation, and I also submitted a complaint with that screenshot to XXXX, as well as left messages with their "" customer advocate office, '' which have gone unreturned. Also, after submitting my consolidation application, I submitted a revised Employer Verification Form to PHEAA. PHEAA had my loan only because of my participation in PSLF and it even had post-consolidation submissions that indicated my ongoing participation in PSLF, so it baffles me that they could process a ruinous consolidation without any electronic disclosure of its consequences. 
The PHEAA manager also said that, unlike direct loans, consolidations have no grace period in which to rescind "" because graduates are more sophisticated than students. '' I 'll concede my sophistication -- I have advanced degrees, and I even work at the CFPB! But if I missed this, I am certain that others have as well. In another conversation with a PHEAA manager, he confirmed that PHEAA had indeed sent a cancellation request to DOE, but he cautioned that cancellations are available in only a few circumstances. One was servicer error that leads to the inadvertent inclusion of loans. That is my case : A servicer error prevented me from viewing an electronic disclosure, resulting in the inadvertent inclusion of the XXXX direct loans."
9027,Account Control Technology-They constantly call my place of work when after I told them not to call and it is not allowed. They called me 4 time today. 2 times on my cell phone and 2 times at work. I already have an agreement to pay and I have paid with no problem.
281,"Naviant contacted me after taking over service of my student loans ; they claimed to have sent me information that i never received, by the time they called the first time I was in default. After resolving the default I attempted to setup payments ; I was forced into a repayment plan paying less than I wanted, I then asked if I could setup auto pay at which point I was told I could only that up through their website. I was also told I could set the payments up for more if I wanted ; the webpage was difficult to navigate and gave me no options to pay more. There was no confirmation that my information was accepted and no indication it was not. 6 months later they called my Uncle who was never a contact on my account attempting to contact me ; my contact information had not changed and I confirmed they had the right information. They informed they had never received a payment and showed that they had no payment information. I am again in default and have no desire to deal with this company."
3846,"I have a joint student loan with my ex-wife and we are in the Public service loan forgiveness program. The loan was transferred from XXXX to Fedloans two years ago. Ever since we have received terrible customer service. We excite different advice each time we call. Now I do most communicating I writing but at times they do n't even respond to my messages on their "" contact us '' section. Furthermore there is no way to track my sent messages and their replies. The messages vanish after a set amount of time. I have lots of documentation about the problems we have endured. We applied for the REPAYE plan in XXXX from Fedloans. We received approval and new terms in XXXX. A standard payment was assessed one month for @ {$2400.00} which I was told was part of the transition to a new plan. I made several calls to the servicer about this amount and was told it was being reviewed for a forbearance and would likely be granted since we are in the PSLFP. I called again XXXX XXXX and was told that an application for the forbearance had never been received. That is the first time we were told we needed to apply for the forbearance. Prior to that date other reps told us it was happening as part of the REPAYE submittal and not to worry about it. The nest day on XXXX XXXX we submitted all documentation and was told it would be reviewed promptly. This was on day XXXX into being late on the amount. I found out today that we had been reported Fedloans reported as delinquent to credit bureaus even though we were told this would not happen. Today I was told it would take 30-60 days to remove the derogatory statement from our credit once the forbearance decision was made. We have made all monthly payment on time since XXXX while waiting for the forbearance. Had we been told in XXXX we needed to apply for the forbearance we would have then. We never received this requirement in writing and was told the opposite by Fedloan reps that ithe forbearance was being reviewed as part of the REPAYE application. The REPAYE application has a place on it to request $ 5 monthly payments during the review period to avoid any forbearance amount. I have also received several calls from Fedloans about the amount past due and when I told the rep we were waiting on Fedloans for a decision the rep acted surprised until they reviewed our account. Not only did we wait 4 months for our REPAYE review we now have a derogatory credit report at no fault of our own. Please help us resolve the credit reporting issue. I am in the middle of refinancing my home and this has impacted that process. I would also like to have our loan transferred to another servicer. Never before with any other credit product I have I seen this type of customer service. Students loan XXXX are so hard to decipher unless you 're an attorney. Often times I know more about the programs than the services themselves. Please help us."
3283,"I have a student loan, XXXX I wasnt sure I had, since I had just paid off XXXX. Anyway the collections emails started, and then the calls. On the call, the woman asked for not only payment, but wanted all my tax info, including all my wife 's information. Since I was at work, I told her, repeatedly, like 4-5 time, that I do not have the info she was requesting. She kept asking for it, asking for a ball park estimate, all kinds of ways. I finally told her the only way I could possibly get her the info was to walk off the job. She said fine and that she would call me later in the evening. Then, a few days later, I got a letter stating my wages were going to be garnished in the next week, and then the week after that, my paychecks were being garnished. Also there is almost XXXX dollars charged for for collection fees. All the money they are garnishing is only going to interest. I tried to explain that I had tried multiple times to submit for a loan rehab, but the website will not progress past the second to last page, even when I switched browsers. That tells me it is theirissue, and not operator error"
4935,"Citibank Student Loans- They do not provide any information on how long I have left to make payments on my loan. The loan details only show me the original amount of the loan, the current payoff amount, my interest rate, and my monthly payment amount. There is nothing I can find as to how many months/years I will be making these payments until I have the loans paid off. I even tried calling to speak to someone ( which every time I hit "" 0 '' it said that was not an option and just kept repeating my next payment due date ). There is not even a way for me to view any actual statements online and I do not receive any in the mail. My address is up to date. They make it very difficult to get information, and find details about how I can get the loans paid and when."
1874,"Navient provides inconsistent, and incorrect information associated with the income based repayment plan ( IBR ), refuses to accept documentation for the annual renewal of the IBR plan, and withholds correspondence in regards to IBR plan until after deadlines have passed. This is the second year in a row that annual renewal of my IBR plan for loans serviced by Navient would have ended due to these issues. It required contacting and requesting processing of IBR documents several times, along with Navient demanding multiple re-submission of IBR renewal request and documentation, and the request was not accepted or processed until after the submission deadline had passed."
4104,"On or about XXXX XXXX, 2014, I applied for a loan consolidation serviced by Navient. It has recently come to my attention that Navient is being sued for unfair and deceptive practices. Upon further review of the terms and conditions of the consolidation application, specifically clause "" G '', I have become concerned that Navient "" may '' convert my department of education loans to private loans, raise interest rates and/or deem me ineligible for certain repayment plans and/or student loan forgiveness programs. Clause "" G '' is vague and deceptive. I have heard of other borrowers whom experienced the aforementioned conversion and I am formally objecting to any such conversion. I am now worried about the most recent loan I took out through Navient for XXXX school education, whereby I am seeking a degree in human services. I would have never agreed to the terms and conditions used by Navient if it was made clear I could become ineligible for student loan forgiveness in the future, as I plan on working for a non-profit organization after completing my XXXX program. 

In addition, I 'm worried that Navient has or could misappropriate my payments or any other calculations regarding my loans and/or interest."
7404,"I attended XXXX University from XX/XX/XXXX - XXXX and have been making nearly $ 600/m payments ever since I left the school to Great Lakes / XXXX XXXX. Great Lakes is servicing my private loans through XXXX XXXX. I have been unemployed for a few months, but have continued to make my payments until this month due to lack of funds. My payments are due on XX/XX/XXXX, and I called Great Lakes on XX/XX/XXXX to request a forbearance or deferment. They gave me the info to do so on my federal loans, but advised me that despite being proactive, I needed to wait until I was 1 day past due on my private loans before I would be eligible for a forbearance. I called back to Great Lakes on XX/XX/XXXX and was told that I met all the qualifications for forbearance and was given a number to XXXX XXXX to call to have it placed on my account as they were only the servicer. I was asked how long I would need, and when I advised it would probably be until XX/XX/XXXX for sure before I could resume payments, she told me that would be fine. When I called XXXX XXXX, and incredibly rude woman answered and told me that XXXX XXXX only offers a 2 month extension, and they are under no obligation to offer me anything else. The issue though was that they will only offer it to me if I am employed - they have no options for those that are unemployed and can not make payment. I was told to call Great Lakes back to figure out what the issue was. When I called back, a rep named XXXX answered and gave me the exact same information about the forbearance and that I should call XXXX XXXX back and ask to speak to a manager. When I called XXXX XXXX, I spoke to a rep named XXXX who said there was no manager available. XXXX though was very helpful and explained that Great Lakes had incorrectly told me to allow my payment to go past due, causing my account to go delinquent, and that I could have applied for an extension before missing the payment. We did a 3 way call with Great Lakes where the conversation included statements where XXXX XXXX had told Great Lakes numerous times that this was not one of their programs, yet their system has not been updated, and they 've received many calls like mine over the last few months. I was escalated to another rep at Great Lakes where again they began speaking of forbearance 's that do not actual exist. When I asked about late charges and reporting to my credit even though I had been given incorrect information, they said there was nothing they could do to stop it. XXXX from XXXX XXXX offered to submit a 2 month extension request, but advised I would probably be denied since I do not have a steady income. He still submitted the request, but made me give a 100 % guarantee that I would be able to resume payments after the 2 months, even though I am still unemployed and have no current income. 

I am in disbelief that Great Lakes and XXXX XXXX have a level of miscommunication that would cause GreatLakes to give advice to a student to allow their account to become to delinquent to apply for a program that does not actually exist, and then not offer anything to help resolve the situation. I also can not believe that XXXX XXXX has nothing available for people who are unemployed and can not make a payment. When it came down to it, my only options were to make the payment, or let it go into default and eventually to collections where I would be assessed late charges, and collections fees ( which usually average around XXXX % of the outstanding balance, which in my case would be an additional $ XXXX I would owe ). If those are my only options, it will be the last time I ever do business with XXXX XXXX. Again, I was told to let my account go delinquent, and now am being told that should never have been the case. 

I would like to have the correct information and all miscommunications resolved for future students in my same scenario."
6049,"Navient is harassing the co-signer to my loan, forcing them to make payments and causing the co-signer 's credit appear as if their delinquent. Navient offered to work with us whatsoever and informed us that we exhausted all of our options regarding hardship, unemployment, etc. XXXX informed me, today, that my loan is current and the next payment is due in XXXX 2016 of approximately {$300.00}, however, Navient informed the cosigner that this amount is due immediately."
7167,"Performant Recovery Inc. is managing my defaulted loan from the Florida XXXX for the time that I attended Florida XXXX University in XXXX, Florida. I have paid them on time since 2008 through automatic deductions from XXXX of my bank accounts. My loan however is still listed as in default status today and I my principal amount has not decreased. Performant Recovery 's response is that I never signed the correct forms to allow them to begin a default rehabilitation program for the loan. Yet, I did sign papers for them to automatically deduct money from my bank account. Now I would like to enter into their rehabilitation program to remove the default status from my record, and move the loan back to Florida XXXX so that I will no longer have to pay collection costs and actually have an impact on deducting my principal loan amount. Performant Recovery Inc. however is unable to get this program started for me. In the last 3 months I have sent them official documents of my tax returns, pay stubs, all of my bills, drivers license, and they keep telling me that their "" auditors '' need to determine if my documents support moving me into a rehab, or if the "" auditors '' will raise my payments because clearly I make more money now. They have yet to send me in writing anything that determine how this audit process is driven or what I need to qualify for allowing the eight years of on time payment that I have sent them to contribute towards reducing my principal loan amount and removing the loan from default status. Every time I have spoken with them since XXXX of this year, they need more information for the audit process, meanwhile they are continuing to deduct {$110.00}. from my bank account through automatic payment monthly. 
Please investigate this process and let me know should I contact a lawyer to get my money back, and my payments credited towards my loan principal and removal of my default statusl"
8276,"I got accepted and attempted to pursue an XXXX in XXXX of the best XXXX schools in XXXX ( in XXXX, consistently # XXXX through # XXXX in any list ) during the XX/XX/XXXX timeframe ( while being mostly unemployed since XX/XX/XXXX, and immediately after the dot-com implosion, when I was an XXXX in XXXX XXXX ). At that time, as a XXXX year-old XXXX/XXXX student in the US, I did not count with enough resources or savings nor held a steady job, though nevertheless, I applied to a combination of Federal and Private student loans to make it happen through XXXX. On the private side, I applied online and immediately got {$70000.00}, apparently based on a good credit score and a couple of personal references ( but again, without a job ). These only covered half of the XXXX program. Unfortunately, the financial crisis came through, starting in XX/XX/XXXX ( especially during the crash of XXXX 's real estate bubble ), and so I considered it responsible to stop borrowing an equal amount to finish the degree, until at least the situation became clearer and the jobs ' hemorrhage would stop. Since then, and after the grace period was over, I made payments to XXXX whenever possible, but the deepening of the financial crisis never allowed me to recover the same level of lost wages, nor I did qualify ( especially in my XXXX ) to do any XXXX work, even when I applied to literally hundreds of positions all over the country ( as the industry was also bleeding older XXXX and transformed itself into XXXX and XXXX ' positions ). Thus, during periods of unemployment, XXXX put me into deferment/forbearance or financial hardship right away, and after the years dragged on and real economic growth was unattainable, I had to face the fact that I needed to pursue something for which I would qualify for my age. So since XX/XX/XXXX, I am pursuing a career as a XXXX ( XXXX ) at a XXXX in XXXX, which today is well underway, despite the fact that I am XXXX yrs of age. 
Navient ( which apparently took over XXXX 's accounts ) told me out of nowhere and halfway into my present program, that I had consumed all of the available in-school and unemployment deferment time, and thus triggered the private loan into repayment, which accrues at {$500.00} a month. Since the rest of my current and older student loans are in-school deferment, and since I was a registered full-time student for the last three years, I do n't have any income to pay such an amount. I constantly receive delinquency warnings and calls from Navient ( every two hours, 3, 4, 5 times a day, from multiple locations, which are designed to interrupt my studies, ruin my focus and fill me with worries, as much as they possibly can ) and threats of becoming reported to the Consumer Reporting Agencies. Of course, I talked to them multiple times to seek relief and to pursue alternate ways to lower the payments. They also claim that are concerned with this delinquent account, and that 'they want to help ', but this is what I find deceiving, since they have not provided any alternatives, while claiming that my wife should make the payments ( when she never signed up any document/s, nor she would be able to afford them ), or that 'I should borrow the money ' to avoid delinquency, or simply : that "" I should charge it to a credit card '', depending on who you talk to at Navient along the way. Apparently, you first need an income to qualify for income-repayment plans, and since I am still a full-time student, they wo n't accept the promise of future payments, when I would qualify for a job after graduation. XXXX or Navient never informed me ( in ten years! ) that other plans were available, such as 'interest only payments ', and other similar plans to reduce the debt overtime. Suddenly, payments went from {$300.00} to {$500.00}."
893,Account is reporting twice for the same account by XXXX different creditors. It is a paid account and reflecting in a negitive manner and I would like for ACS to please remove the account/negitive reporting from all XXXX credit bureaus. As I have spoke to one of ACS agents on XX/XX/2017 and was advised to send in something showing it was still reporting and they would have it removed.The documentation was also sent in the same day. Each time I write to ACS they send me back the same letter that I 've already responded to. which leads me to believe no one is reading the documents that are send in otherwise I would not get the same letter back asking the same question that was already answered. I will attach the letters that show the dates from ACS.
4309,"I have gone to XXXX different schools, XXXX which are under investigation with the state attorney. I have applied several times including your company asking for an investigation, asking for a reduction, in some cases my school loans to be deleted due to now I still do not have certification. Nobody wants to get involved, I am still in debt, I still owe {$50000.00} to Dept of Education. I have signed an Ability to Benefit which I was asked to send in a paper from the state, if I have not worked. I think having a food stamp card is self explanatory enough. I have applied for every help in order to have my school loans reduced and nothing has happened."
6357,"The promissory notes for my private loans were stolen out of my home. I have been trying to obtain copies of the promissory notes from my student loan servicer. I had XXXX XXXX Loans ( XXXX ), but my loan servicer has provided a copy of the promissory note for only XXXX XXXX loan. I have asked for a copy of the XXXX loan, and I received a form letter that said, "" enclosed in the information you requested, '' except the missing promissory note for the XXXX XXXX loan was not enclosed. I have been requesting copies of the promissory notes on all my loans from the loan servicer since XX/XX/2015."
6925,We 've had this loan for a while now and in it 's simplest terms the amount applied to the principal versus the amount to interest is silly. Out of XXXX applied in may 2016 applied to interest is XXXX and XXXX applied to principal and it 's been this way for the entire loan process and we are having a difficult time repaying the loan back at that mthly amount. We tried to get it lowered they say we make too much money which is a silly comment at best. This whole loan with Nelnet seems like it should be illegal.
5926,"XX/XX/2007, I took out a private loan with XXXX XXXX in order to obtain my XXXX degree. At the time of this loan, I was mislead in the amount of penalties and interest rates that I would accrue. A loan that was initially for {$800.00} dollars, soon became a bill of nearly {$3600.00}. Despite the hardships my family endured, we were continually harassed. I worked with the company as well as I could, but most times they were n't even willing to talk to me. I eventually settled and paid the loan off through a collector for {$1500.00}. Only a few months later, I started to receive calls from another collector looking for repayment on the same loan. I called them and called the company I had previously paid. I 've sent letters to show my debt was already paid. Yet every few months ANOTHER creditor calls me attempting to obtain payment for the SAME debt. When I contacted XXXX XXXX to find out if they could fix the problem, I was informed that my loan had been transferred to Navient. Navient has "" sold '' my student loan to multiple collectors. Despite the fact I have paid my debt ( XXXX XXXX ), I periodically will receive new collection calls for a loan that has been already paid. I find it ridiculous that I have to track down all the collectors my loan has been sent to in order for the calls and harassment to stop. The company I paid swears that they have informed Navient that my debt is settled and at least XXXX of the collectors told me ( XXXX ) told me they had RECENTLY obtained my debt from Navient. Despite it having been settled since XX/XX/XXXX. Surely there is something that can be done to end the calls. This is ridiculously. First I am misinformed on the amount I have to pay back, then I finally pay back the amount and continue to be harassed. Help!"
4889,"Sallie Mae, pulled my co-signer 's credit report without authorization. They did this to pressure my co-signer into a payment"
5529,"Back in 2007, I attended XXXX XXXX , XXXX ( XXXX University ) now called XXXX XXXX XXXX. I submitted a request to be withdrawn from attendance within the required time frame. The school had informed me that the loan would not take effect immediately, but would be disbursed in future semesters towards the end of my degree plan ; they withheld how the loan disbursement would actually take place. They never processed my withdrawal request, and instead kept me on their attendance records to they could collect on the loan disbursement, which they did. I have contacted the original loan servicer, XXXX, requesting to dispute the loan, and they referred me to ECMC, the current loan Servicer. After contacting ECMC to dispute the loan, they are refusing to acknowledge my documentation and complaints on the matter. They keep sending me back and forth to address the matter with XXXX XXXX for a record correction, even though the school keeps ignoring my inquiries, and the school is owned by ECMC, the present loan collector demanding I go to the school."
3407,"I have been attempting to obtain a reduction in student loan payments. Currently, my wages and income tax refunds are under garnishment. On XXXX occasions the necessary paperwork has been submitted yet my responses have been in the form of letter advising me the XXXX has submitted my account for debt collection. On XXXX/XXXX/2016 I received a response to my latest request for a reduction. I immediately contacted the XXXX number ( Saturday hours were listed as XXXX ) at XXXX and received a recording the office was closed. On XXXX/XXXX/2016 I received another notice advising me the XXXX had placed my account in delinquency status with a collection agency ( Trans World Systems Inc ) and they were unable to contact me and I needed to contact them. I called and spoke with XXXX XXXX, who informed me the reason they send me this notice was due to their inability to get in contact with me and I needed to submit the same form I had submitted ( I have copies believe the credit agencies are UNFAIR in their practice and deliberately or callously delay repayment negotiations by constantly asking for the same information or in my case generating a debt collection notice when in fact the account is being repaid. The notice does not state a reason why all the paperwork was rejected or what was incorrect. The letter tells me to send all correspondence to the collection agency address. I submitted over 20 pages of documents and it is obvious they received something, what I find troubling with this situation is why I receive a debt collection notice rather than a professional acknowledgement of my documents as well as what items are further needed to process my request. It is time-consuming to gather all the documents required by XXXX for consideration of reduction. I am deeply troubled by the {$20.00}, XXXX in penalties assessed to my account and how no communication is mailed to me on a regular basis since my wages are garnished on a regular basis. Nor do I receive a balance statement. In the past I had to file numerous complaints against the collection agency for harassing calls at my workplace, cell phone and home phone. 
As I have stated to the agency in the past, I do not want phone calls, I want all communications in WRITING. That is not illegal or against the law to ask for this request. Yet when I submit information in writing, I am told they could not contact me and I need to call them. But when I call I am told I need to resubmit information previously submitted but with no explanation as to what if anything was incorrect. Not only do I seek a reduction in my monthly payments, but I am requesting to receive a monthly statement indicating how my monthly and yearly payments have been applied over the past two years as well as payments in the past. I feel the collection agency is being deceptive and assumes that customers are ignorant or afraid to question their questionable business practices."
776,"I use the Navient online portal to manage my account. All billing is sent to me via email. 
I recently received an email from Navient regarding my account that had been sent to a relative, who 's contact information has never been a part of my loan process. I was confused because I had received no communication myself. The Navient Customer Service Dept. informed me that I had logged into the site and changed the email myself on XXXX/XXXX/16. I tried to explain to Navient that there was not a chance I had changed this information they let me know they had corrected my email and moving forward information would be sent to my proper address. At this point a process was triggered that sent an email to both the corrected email address as well as the incorrect email address, this process did not take place on XXXX/XXXX/16 when my account was incorrectly adjsuted. I am concerned because I did not change the address and my information had been shared with an unauthorized individual. Navient did not address my security concerns with how the email address was changed. The relative who received my email regarding my account had previously held an account with Navient and has a letter stating her account had been paid off dated XXXX/XXXX/16. I do not know if this was a data entry error or if my account has been hacked and my credit card info. and SSN have been compromised. Navient has not provided any information on how this was changed other than accusing me of the change. I am concerned Navient made the change, in error or to gain my attention for payment."
682,"Thank you for taking the time to read and address my concern. In the midst of a tedious process of obtaining mortgage approval, my loan underwriter advised me that their were several 90 day late payments being reported by Navient impeding our process of moving forward. After detailed examination of my credit report I found that Navient has reported 10-90 day late payments! To add further damage, it is being reported across multiple accounts although I have always made one payment to  XXXX   XXXX  and  XXXX . It looks extremely negligent and is extremely damaging to my overall  credit score  and profile. However, the major issue is that all the 90 day lates being reported were on or around  XXXX , during the time I was in an agreement with  XXXX   XXXX  for forebearance. I am not certain as to why that did not transfer over when Navient begin servicing my loans. There were many times I experienced hardship, yet I always remained adamant about contacting  XXXX  Mae/Navient for payment arrangements such as deferment or forbearance. Since then, the accoun t ( s ) ha s been paid off and consolidated.   Being a   XXXX   XXXX   , I valu e education to the utmost. However, it is disheartening to already not be in the highest income bracket and also struggle to achieve home ownership due to late marks reported incorrectly from your previous student loan servicer.   I reached out to Navient upper managment and office of customer advocate to resolve this issue to no avail. They had someone call me and I got the typical statement ... '' do you have your forebearance or deferment paperwork ''. Of course I do n't, that was 3 years ago and I had no reason to keep it. I am sure most people do not have their forebearance paperwork from 3 years ago, and Navient knew that before they even asked.   Navient 's response and handling of this issue is highly finical. You would think that they have some type of incentive or reporting 10, 90 day late payments across multiple accounts. Given that these loans are paid in full and Navient was in the process of obtaining  XXXX   XXXX  loans, one would like to think they would take  the higher road an d give a former customer the benefit of the doubt. Especially, when I am reaching out saying this is really hindering my mortgage loan process. However, it is too much like right and characteristic of a reputable company for Navient to stop reporting this. Now I understand why their reputation for customer service and operations is absolutely horrible. Additionally, this explains their frequent involvement in litigation. For the life of me, I ca n't understand why Navient wants to continue to pad their reputation of how they treat customers. It 's almost as if they enjoyed giving me a hard time, and would love to misrepresent my payment history. My question to Navient is, what are you losing by taking the  high road  like a reputable company would and give a customer the benefit of the doubt? This approach to resolve issues, will eventually become very expensive for them."
1636,"I attended an XXXX program in XXXX and took out student loans. Upon graduating and beginning repayment, I was often contacted by customer service given XXXX amount owed ( $ XXXX/month ). I was not aware that this XXXX amount I was told was outstanding, represented the balance of XXXX loans. Therefore, when I had financial issues and could not repay, one missed payment represented XXXX negative hits ( XXXX for each loan ). While missing 7 payments over the course of 4 years is not good, it is far worse that each loan was reflected as non payment ( XXXX negative marks ). I was never told I had the option to pay some loans, which resulted in lower payments. And while some would have and could have still been delinquent, all XXXX loans would not have been. I believed all the loans came from institution, and therefore there was only one payment due."
9806,"This debt was disputed on XXXX/XXXX/16 via email. A response was not received for the dispute. 

Moreover, debt collector sent XXXX harassing emails within 2 hours. Debt collector first called my phone XXXX XX/XX/XXXX at XXXX from XXXX leaving a voicemail but sent no other correspondence. 
The debt collector has tried to make the communication sent on XXXX/XXXX/16 looks like it is a law firm and threatens to charge interest, late charges and other charges."
4948,"I have paid my XXXX XXXX private loans for years upon graduating. Recently, I had a baby and in order to work full-time, I had to arrange for daycare. This inevitably ate up any money I had at the end of the month on top of all my basic daily living expenses. 
I have been unable to pay my private student loans because they will not lower the payment amount and I can not afford to pay them {$300.00} a month for interest-only payments. They will not offer me any program and have actually bad-mouthed me on the phone in terms of my choices. I offered to pay them {$100.00} but they refuse to accept this even after I forebear the loans XXXX. Even with interest only payments, I will be paying these loans forever, I will never be able to finish paying them which only makes the future bleak."
3034,"Background : I took these loans out when I was XXXX - I 'm now XXXX. 

30 years later, after much struggle in my field and other fields to make end meet, I find that I 'm still burdened by these loans despite my best efforts to be gainfully employed and to eventually pay them off. 

I took out these loans as an undergrad at XXXX where I received what turns out to be a rather noneffective XXXX my choice, my bad, my decision at age XXXX. I am accountable. 

But here 's the thing : I had paid off a large portion of those loans in lump sum payments after the semi-successful sale of a low budget feature film I made and sold. My goal was and is to transition into XXXX and other practical areas to find additional work ( *I 'm XXXX now, XXXX ) but at the time XXXX would not even release my transcripts until I paid off their loan component - I forget the names of the internal XXXX federal loans now, versus the external Federal loans. XXXX XXXX or XXXX? ] Anyway : my point is, the fact that I have those XXXX transcripts now is 100 % verification that I have in fact partly paid off that part of my loans. 

When I was last back in the XXXX, I contacted my prevoious loan holder to try to ascertain the status of the loans. No response. I also contacts ( by email and certified letter ), the 'Ombudsman ' who I gathered was in charge of helping me navigate the serpentine world of student loan repayment. 

No response. 

I also did outreach to my credit agencies to determine my credit, assuming that my credit would be substandard due to my outstanding loans. XXXX replied that 'I had a blank record '. I asked them to send me a copy anyway, just so I would have some hard copy proof of my credit via that outreach. 

I still have those records, and despite my attempts to determine the status of my loans - and to EVEN FIND OUT WHO I OWED TO ( i.e., who had the loans ) - I could get no information despite my good faith efforts. 

During that time, by the way, I worked for the XXXX and I received excellent reviews for my performance. And, during that time, there was also no mention of my loan status, or that anything was amiss. 

My assumption was, that, since I had done sustained, proactive outreach to find out a ) who held my loans and b ) what the status of these loans are/were, that I had done nothing wrong. 

Yet, recently, after voting from XXXX ( where I 'm making a very modest living although I 'm constantly seeking additonal work - my alternative was foodstamps and unemployment in the XXXX ), there has been outreach from a new loan agency which is charging me more than the initial sum I started out with 30 years ago. 

That is : there is no itemization of my previous payments, and my overall sense is this is a predatory agency and that my rights as a loan holder have been violated. 

Aside from all technical data and determinations : I fail to see how it is reasonable or has any bearing in a common sense world, that I can be scraping and hustling to find work ( and to work ) for 25 years, not able to afford a family, taking on Foodstamps on occasion, and taking work outside of my degree field without hesitation, only to find that the 'boulder ' is back down at the bottom of the hill via an inflated and opaque amount due. 

I am not someone who has declared that I have a 'moral right ' not to pay the loans - I have just been unable to, and have also been at times nearly unable to make ends meet, even aside from these loans : 1 ) What are the legal ramifications of the loan holding agencies NOT responding to my sustained previous outreach to attempt to identify them, which in turn has led to a further 'compulsive ' delinquency? 

2 ) How is it that, after paying off several of the loans via coercion, i.e., being unable to gain my transcripts from XXXX until I paid for the loans, that those paid-off loans are not reflected in the total?"
5443,I went to XXXX in XXXX. I was never told about my student loan and am now paying a private loan through XXXX/ Navient at 13.375 percent interest. I have a copy of my student loan exit interview with the box unchecked signed and dated. I believe the school and XXXX are and were preditors
7238,Payments are n't applied correctly and have been paying on them for nearly 20 years. I have had no help in understanding why the amount is barely reduced and sometimes increased monthly after a payment is made. Lately I have to call 9-10 times just to get an answer or things corrected. This is from my XXXX from XXXX University and my XXXX XXXX from the University XXXX.
2253,"I signed up for automatic debit payments from Navient. Navient would take the payments from my account. I would have to call and make the payment over the phone. When talking to them, they would say it 's something wrong my bank account which cause them to not pull the payment. I use the same account to make the payments over the phone. My account always their payment in the account but Navient will say I had insufficient funds in my account. My bank and I have talked and proved there was enough money in the account to make the payment. Navient charges a late fee each time it 's late and it is ruining my credit."
4041,"Loan recently transferred to Navient. I am currently experiencing financial and family hardship and attempting to place loans on deference. Told I did not qualify by Navient agent when I called. I filed a complaint with the XXXX and they have not responded. Website difficult to navigate and just leads me around and around in a circle telling me to sign in to my account again and again every time a click a link attempting to navigate to the loan deferment site. I asked Navient through the XXXX to provide paperwork since it is not possible to apply for a deferment online and I have not received that either. I have now been waiting since XX/XX/2017. However, I did receive an email from XXXX from their office of consumer advocate asking me to keep making payments while they check into my complaint which is completely unhelpful due to my current financial in, hardship."
8274,"I have been in communication with american education services to try to get my payment reduced. Account XXXX for XXXX XXXX. This loan is now in danger of defaulting. The last few conversations I have had with representatives have told me I am eligible for forebearance on my higher loan that is XXXX but when I apply I am denied. I have also been given false minimum payment information repeatedly so that my payment amounts that I have been making are not sufficient. 

I would like to be granted a forebearance and be able to get caught up on this loan so I can go into repayment as soon as possible with a reasonable payment amount. 

The last representative I spoke with yesterday, XXXX XXXX, 2015 validated the issues I am having and has offered to investigate further. His ID is XXXX and his name is XXXX. He says I was given the wrong/incorrect amounts needed to pay to qualify for other plans. Wrong amounts and dates. 

Again.. I would like to get the outstanding payment/current due of {$1100.00} to be reset or in forebearane and the interest rate lowered so that I can make a reasonable payment arrangement."
1592,"ECMC and/or PCR have been calling friends and acquaintances seeking information about me. Yesterday, they called a former girlfriend of my brother 's seeking information about me. This is an invasion of my privacy and is harassment, especially when they have my current address and know that I am retired."
6652,"During college, I took out a loan from Nelnet for {$3500.00}. Unfortunately, I forgot about the loan because the company sent me repayment information to my old university email, which I no longer had access to after graduating XX/XX/XXXX. Then on XX/XX/XXXX, I was notified of a delinquency on my credit report. I looked into it, and discovered that my Nelnet loan was now delinquent, as I had not made a single payment. Realizing my mistake, I called Nelnet to try and fix the situation. The loan officer promised on the phone that if I paid off the loan in full right now, Nelnet would remove the delinquency and it would not affect my credit score in the future. Because of his promise, instead of making monthly payments on the loan, I paid off the loan in full using my savings. I called two more times after I paid the loan to make sure everything was paid off completely. Both times, the loan officers ensured that the loan was paid off, and that the delinquency would be removed. I assumed everything was done regarding my Nelnet loan. 
However, I checked my credit score earlier this month, and my credit score dropped again. I called XXXX, and the XXXX agent confirmed that my NelNet delinquency was still hurting my score. My delinquency was still on my credit report, unlike what Nelnet had promised. I called Nelnet today to clear up the issue, and the agent this time sang a completely different tune. The agent said that delinquencies can not be removed, and that the delinquency would stay on my report for 7-10 years. I explained that I had paid off my loan in full because I was promised that the delinquency would be removed from my credit report. The agent said she would "" look '' into the recordings. But 5 minutes later, she came back saying the recordings could not be found because they were too old. I am very frustrated because I think Nelnet should still have access to the recordings as they are not even a year old ( XX/XX/XXXX ), and may be hiding the calls on purpose. I am also frustrated that Nelnet promised to remove my delinquency, and now claim that they are unable to do so under any circumstance. I researched online people getting delinquencies removed from their credit report, and I am certain that Nelnet can do so also. The Nelnet agent I talked to today said she would also submit a complaint to her supervisor, but I am very skeptical. All I want is for the delinquency to be removed from my credit report as promised."
486,"I try to live on about XXXX month. I applied to have my payments lowered to what I can afford on my income. It was refused saying I didnt qualify! I listed all my bills showing before groceries, I owe XXXX Needless to say my bills are paid late as I keep getting behind."
3971,"Several years ago I had fallen behind on one of my school loans issued by my school. I was current with all my federal loans at that time though. I had XXXX and XXXX XXXX as servicers of the federal loans. I received a call from someone claiming to be from the department of education and he informed me that I was going to be in default of my university-issued loan. He said if I consolidated the loan to XXXX XXXX that it would stop the process, plus put me into an income based repayment plan. I did not want to include the XXXX loans but he said that all my loans had to be included for it to be approved. So I was mailed XXXX + pages of paperwork to fill out - there were employment records, tax info, new promissory notes to XXXX XXXX, etc. It took me several days to complete, plus I had to include copies of pay stubs, taxes, etc. I faxed the completed forms to the company. I was contacted later by the person, stating that I was missing certain forms. I re-faxed them. He completed the paperwork and sent me another packet to sign. I did as instructed and was informed that all my loans were now with XXXX XXXX. I was also supposed to be in deferment. Looking back now, I wonder if the person I worked with was not actually a XXXX XXXX rep looking to bring in money. Shortly thereafter ( only a few months ), XXXX XXXX became Navient. I received a bill several months later from Navient, saying I was several months late on repayment and the monthly rate was 3 times what my repayment plan was for. I told them to was supposed to be deferred and that even if I were n't, my monthly payment was supposed to be much lower due to the income-based repayment plan. First they said they had no record of my agreement. Then they changed that to the claim that my repayment plan terms had expired. They put me in forebearance and I asked them to send me the income-based paperwork again. They said the papers would take a while to get there. They put me in forebearance but never did send the forms. I contacted them again and again they said they 'd send the forms. A coupe of more months went by and I never received the papers. I was offered forebearance again. Papers were supposed to be mailed, they never were. Late fees added, interest racked up, forbearance issued. We 've been going round like this now for several years. Sadly, I gave up years ago on getting any help from Navient. My loans have increased substantially due to interest and late fees. They make it almost impossible to get an answer or assistance. The last time I spoke with Navient was several months ago. My husband was losing hours at work and I work XXXX jobs ( both within my degree field, but both categorized "" as needed '', so hours worked can vary from no hours to XXXX/wk depending on the month ) but we were struggling financially. I really hated having those late school loans over my head though, and wanted to attempt to bring them current. They offered me a repayment amount that was not within my means at that point. I told them so, but they still pushed the amount, claiming that even though my yearly income was low, my past few months income disqualified me from having no payment ( even though my I explained that both jobs are "" per diet/adjunct '', and we have XXXX children in the home ). I reluctantly agreed. But I was never able to make a payment. It 's financially impossible at this point. Again, I received an email asking me to reply "" yes '' for a forbearance. My forbearance has just recently run out again and I 'm again going to try to get some kind of affordable repayment plan, however, I have no faith in Navient to help me. And even if they offer a payment, the interest is so high that I know my loans will increase again due to interest not being paid through such a low payment. I fear that I will never be able to repay at this rate. So much for bettering myself through education."
6629,"I have a private student loan with Wells Fargo Bank, Thus far they have attempted to collect my debt from ONLY XXXX co-signer. The one who happens to be the richest our of all of my co signers ( I only have XXXX loans and XXXX co signers ) I am trying to consolidate the XXXX loans. They have rejected the XXXX co signer I have ( My spouse ). I am an XXXX and do not have anyone else to offer up as a co signer. When I explained this to Wells Fargo, I was told that did not matter that I would have to find a co XXXX or pay the monthly payments as they are written out per the terms of the loan. I have gotten them to verify that they are charging me XXXX the interest rate that was agreed to. When asking for an explanation they had none. All I am trying to do is lower the payment, what they want and what I can afford are XXXX different things. Currently my XXXX in Federal Loans is cheaper that the XXXX I owe to Wells Fargo. Wells Fargo has admited to not contacting me to advise that loan payments were due, They contacted my co signer and advised him that he was required to pay the loan in full or be subjected to a negative credit report. Today I called Wells Fargo again attempting consolidate or re negotiate my loan pmts. I was told that there was nothing that they could do until I found a new co signer."
6278,"I am having trouble making student loans payments, due to the high cost. I have tried to call to lower the payments but have been required to have my co-signers call in to submit a financial statement before this would be possible. I have XXXX co-signers on my loans, XXXX is my mother XXXX is my brother. My brother has been out of the country and was unable to make a call for the finanical statement, however my mother did call in to give hers in XX/XX/XXXX. Upon my brother returning to country in XX/XX/XXXX he called to give his statement, I was then told that my mother had to redo her statement since it was a new month. That was the first time that dealing with Sallie Mae became difficult. Upon my mother calling in XX/XX/XXXX, the man named XXXX XXXX, received to allow her to give a financial statement instead badgering her to make payments on my behalf. My mother is going to be out of a job, and is going to be unable to make payments soon. The company had continuously told me to have my co-signers call in to make the statement so I was able to lower my payments, instead they have taken advantage of my co-signer and made deceptive claims to myself. The process to lower payments is extremely difficult and burdensome making it nearly impossible to complete the process to achieve the end result of lowered payments. On top of this during the process of working to figure out how to repay the loans I was consistently called and harassed about being delinquent on the loan."
8609,"Allied Interstate is continuing to call my job and work, after I asked them 3 different times to stop calling my work. Collecting for XXXX. They 've had a HIGH turn over rate since I 've been dealing with them so I never get the same person for long. Every time I call to make a payment and my contact information is reviewed, and again yesterday XX/XX/XXXX and today XX/XX/XXXX they 're calling my job asking for me. 
Name of the school at the time of loan was XXXX University, at the time I did n't realize I was taking a private student loan."
5464,"My parents took out a private student loan through XXXX XXXX in XXXX 2004. I was the XXXX co-borrower on the loan. It stared out as a {$22000.00} loan. I had asked that the loan be cancelled but my parents decided to keep it for their personal use. Throughout the years my family had defaulted a few times and has affected my credit. XXXX XXXX changed to Navient. When they switched over, Navient made a payment agreement with my parents to get back on track with their payments. My XXXX questions are : When this loan was refinanced through Navient, should n't I have been allowed to take my name off loan? I never signed off on any paperwork. 2 : I feel that there is something wrong mathematically as to why this {$22000.00} loan has a balance of {$39000.00}"
3503,I have been in some form of bankruptcy since XXXX and paid my last payment in XXXX XXXX. At that point my loan went from a total of {$160000.00} to whopping {$350000.00}. All my loans double in size which should have bankruptcy stay and not capitalized interest. I requested someone from Navient to research how my interest was calculated I received an immediately approval of consolidation in order to stop the conversation. I need help to discern why all my loans have doubled.
9001,"I was authorized to speak for a co signer. However, the Debt Collector Trans World Collecting on behalf of XXXX ( rep. XXXX ) keeps calling me. I am not on the loan but they wo n't stop calling me. Despite the fact she keeps calling me, she will not fax or mail the original contract to me. She refuses to make a counter offer and has lied several times about the negotiations."
6380,The XXXX school that I went to is being sued by the government for being fraudulent
3074,"I saw an ad online from XXXX for helping consolidate loans. I contacted them, gave them my information about my loans and they put me in contact with XXXX to process my payments to them. 

I used XXXX to help apply for a lower monthly payment plan. They processed my paperwork and moved my loan servicing to XXXX. They failed to migrate my Perkins loan to XXXX, so now I have to pay a separate business for this other loan. I was completely unaware that my Perkins loan was n't included in my new payment plan until AFTER I was notified that a bill was past due. 

Before attempting to refinance my loans, I paid all of my federal loans with one monthly payment of {$160.00}. Now, I have to pay $ XXXX monthly to XXXX in addition to {$230.00} a month to separately pay for my Perkins loan. 

All of this is not including monthly payments I have to make for private loans."
6112,"Navient deducted a private student loan payment from my credit union checking account without any authorization from me. I have contacted them several times over the past 2 months ( XXXX/XXXX/15, XXXX/XXXX/15, XXXX/XXXX/15, XXXX/XXXX/15 ), sent them copies of my bank statement via fax ( XXXX/XXXX/15 ) and email ( XXXX/XXXX/15 ), yet they fail to refund the {$23.00} insufficient funds fee I incurred as a result of their unauthorized bank debit."
8559,"I have been dealing with XXXX XXXX ( Navient ) for years and have n't had one positive experience. Currently, I pay {$170.00} a month. I went to XXXX XXXX ( in XXXX XXXX Mi, ca n't find the listing in the bottom ) and had to stop going 3 months into graduating due to family reasons. After a few months had passed, they were having me pay that amount. I let them know right away that I could not afford this amount so they told me to do a foreberence on my account which would make it so I did n't have to pay for 3 months, but the interest rate remains but I would need to pay {$50.00} to do so. What I did n't realize, is that my interest rate flew way up and majorly high. I had to keep calling and pay {$50.00} every 3 months because I still could not afford the high payment, and they offered me nothing to help me through the struggling months. I had to resort to my co-signer and he had been paying for me for over a year. But, this is just the start of the harassment these people have put us through. They always had no issues calling me and my co-signer when my payment was coming due or when it was past due. They would always call my work and my co-signers work and his cell over and over again as we told them numerous times to not call us at our place of employment. Better yet, they would call late hours as well past XXXX. So, my point to this part of the story is, the last foreberence I paid the {$50.00} for was denied and they never told me it was. They told me the payment went through and the foreberence was accepted. The calls stopped for 3 months so I thought I was in the clear ( they gave me a confirmation number and all ) until I got a call stating that my account was 3 months past due and I oued them 3 months worth of payments and late fees! I told them I was not going to pay them a cent as it was their mistake for not letting me know and all they could say was they were sorry but there was nothing they could do, I then hung up as I was so frustrated. They called my co-signed seconds away before I could reach out to him and let him know what was going on ( because I knew they would trick him into paying ) and they did that exact thing, he paid the full amount. After all of this happened, another incident happened. It was getting harder and harder for me to pay the {$170.00} as I kept stressing to them to please lower the payment for me so I would n't be past due, still no help. I began to become part due every month. I was told that I was past due one month and owed {$340.00} ( I was told this was the late fee everytime ) so my co-signer had to pay it for me. The next month came around and I paid {$170.00}. This happened a few times over and over again until one person told me that they have n't been giving me late fees, that those payments of {$340.00} was including the next month so I was paying double! Example, for the month of XXXX I paid XXXX and XXXX and then XXXX again! It took a few months for someone to be honest with me 1 time! Recently, me and my husband had a XXXX and I left work because we ca n't afford daycare so we have one Income coming in. I spoke to 5 different people that I can no longer afford those payments and to please help me lower it to at LEAST {$100.00} ( I never said I would n't pay them, just asked to lower ) they would n't do that for me. Because of them, we are financially strained to the max as well as my co-signer ( he is no longer able to help me )! We are close to losing our house, and they do n't sympathize whatsoever. They do n't care about helping you at all, instead they have made my life extremely stressful and I think about it all the time. I told them, all I have is {$100.00}, nothing more, and they threaten that they will send me to collections ... I need my story heard, not just for me but for my family. We are physically and mentally drained because of these people."
3322,"XXXX, NC XXXX XX/XX/2017 Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Consumer Complaints XXXX, IA XXXX RE : NAVIENT Loan-XXXX-1 Dear CFPB : I am seeking assistance with the proper application of my loan payment to NAVIENT. 
On XX/XX/2017 I made payment of {$920.00} ( please see payment receipt enclosed ) to NAVIENT for Loan XXXX. This payment included what NAVIENT states in the payment statement ( please see enclosed payment statement ) unpaid fees of {$260.00}. 
On XX/XX/2017 I returned to the NAVIENT website to schedule my next payment and see an amount due of {$260.00} which I just paid ( please see enclosed Account Summary ). I then called NAVIENT to report that the payment was not applied properly because I paid the unpaid fees, as well as the current payment of {$650.00} totaling {$920.00}. The representative told me she saw the problem and asked me to hold. Whomever she spoke with provided this response. "" Do n't worry about it will be there until the loan is paid off, just pay the regular scheduled payment. '' My response was NO you all need to apply it properly. The representative then placed me on hold to return to tell me that, "" the full payment was applied to all interest and they would be sending me a document which explained how payments are applied. '' I then refused to take this as answer. 
Enclosed is the document found in my NAVIENT student loan documentation ( Loan Term documents enclosed ), it clearly shows that there were {$260.00} in outstanding fees which included in my payment paid on XX/XX/2017 totaling {$920.00}? The Loan Term documents enclosed clearly shows by monthly payment to be {$650.00}. 
I would like my payments applied properly as is stated on my Payment Statement. The unpaid fees and loan payment should be applied as such and my current payment should only reflect the {$650.00} due on XX/XX/2017. Per the new account summary NAVIENT is stating I owe {$920.00} ( please see enclosed account summary 2 dates XX/XX/2017 ) which includes {$260.00} that I have already paid on XX/XX/2017. 
Please do n't allow NAVIENT deceptive payment practices go on any longer. Also please note that I REFUSE to pay the {$260.00} again and I also need it reflected on my statements that I have paid the unpaid fees of {$260.00} to NAVIENT on XX/XX/2017. 
I understand the Consumer Financial Protect Bureau has sued NAVIENT for such practices and I would like my compliant included in the law suit if you find it applicable. 

Sincerely, XXXX Enclosure ( XXXX )"
9715,"XXXX hired Financial Asset Management Systems to collect on my student loan. Financial Asset Management Systems ( "" FAMS '' ) is engaging in deceptive debt collection practices. I had setup an automatic payment using FAMS ' own online payment system for XXXX 2016. For some unknown reason FAMS cancelled the automatic online payment for XXXX 2016, which made me allegedly late for my monthly payment. I have attached a screenshot of FAMS own online payment system. I went back and checked FAMS online system on XXXX XXXX, 2016 and noticed that XXXX had cancelled the payment and I made the payment on XXXX XXXX, 2016. The attached screenshot shows the cancellation from XXXX. To top it off, XXXX is trying to modify my credit report as a result of FAMS ' illegal debt collection tactics because XXXX is no longer reporting the payment arrangement to my credit report ( {$250.00} per month, 0.001 % ) with any of the credit reporting agencies which I 'm assuming is a result of FAMS ' action of canceling my monthly payment for no reason. There is no reason FAMS should have cancelled the monthly payment. FAMS is engaging in flagrant violations of the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act."
4616,"My loan repayment is extremely high with high interest rates. Repaying the loan is difficult with my salary I am currently collecting. Trying to talk to them to lower my monthly payments is a struggle, and forbearance actually hurt me when I tried it once. They still charged me after I fell behind on my loans and needed assistance by placing me in a forbearance for XXXX months, where I still paid close to {$500.00} per month."
8645,"I set up monthly recurring EFT payments with Navient. After my XXXX payment was processed, Navient charged me again without my authorization."
9426,"Friday XX/XX/XXXX, I received a letter from my employer with copies from ECMC stating my wages were going to be garnished beginning on XX/XX/XXXX paycheck. This was the 1st and ONLY communication I have received from ECMC. They are garnishing {$200.00} bi-weekly from my check. So, {$400.00} a month. I did not receive ANY documentation advising me of the intent to garnish my wages therefore, I did not have the ability to dispute or negotiate. 

My XX/XX/XXXX-XX/XX/XXXX federal taxes were withheld stating debt collection for student loans but were never applied to the balance of the loan. 

In XX/XX/XXXX, I received a letter from ECMC stating the intent to wage garnish had been cancelled. Again, with no notification of the intent do do so in the first place. 

As of this time, we are a single income family of XXXX with me being the primary source of income. I commute XXXX miles each way. I am unable to afford the shortage in my check. This may possibly force me to look for employment closer to my town at a lower rate of pay, loss of medical benefits and quite possibly my house because I will no longer be able to afford the incoming bills. 

Since receiving the letter, I have attempted several means of communicating with ECMC with no response. The website has either has no record of my student loans or will not allow me to log in. I have also attempted to apply for loan forgiveness programs ( XXXX XXXX XXXX ) but can not complete the application process due to inaccessibility to my account. 

I am employed at a University Police Department and am in the process of admission to complete my degree. It appears to me they have conveniently used my position to solicit moneys before I am completely enrolled. FYI, the last class I took was in XX/XX/XXXX."
9517,"I have stated multiple times that Navin t is not to contact me by phone at any time, including specifically being told not to contact my employer. A representative from Navient contacted a member of HR at my work and threatened them to turn over personal financial information about me. The HR rep was scared from the threatening tone of the representative. After that incident, I immediately told Navient that they are not to contact me at work. Today I got several blocked caller ID number calls at work and a threatening voicemail on my personal work line."
4516,"I attended XXXX XXXX University in XXXX. At that time I was told that I needed to borrow {$7700.00} to cover the remainder of the semester. The loan counselor stated that I would only have to pay {$50.00} a month to repay the loan. Now I have a {$200.00} payment with 13.50 % interest rate and the bill is now {$13000.00}. The university is a for profit university and was under XXXX at the time, which I was not told about. The loan has doubled and I was not told about the XXXX. The interest is {$140.00} each month and {$63.00} a month and I have been paying it since XXXX."
1644,"I just read an article in XXXX about Navient telling customers their only option is forbearance instead of an income based repayment plan. That is exactly what happened to me. For OVER three years, I was told there was only a forbearance option for my loans. That is over three years of interest that was needlessly incurred without any debt reduction. I am furious that I was not told about any other payment plans. I was told I could pay a high monthly amount or go into forbearance. I chose forbearance, because my XXXX XXXX husband and I could not afford the high monthly rate on his income. I was unable to work due to our continuous military moves, our baby, and his XXXX. I am now in XXXX school and when all is said and done, will owe over {$120000.00} in student loan debt. That means, I will have to use my ENTIRE salary to pay an astronomical payment just to pay off these loans that were supposed to help our family improve our quality of life. I will have to work for 5+ years just to pay back all of this debt, some of which was unnecessarily incurred due to Navient 's blatant lie about one high repayment option or forbearance."
6864,"I took out student loans with XXXX XXXX financial to help cover my college tuition. 
The loans were later converted to Navient. After repaying on the loans for over XXXX years I saved enough to pay off the account. In order to ensure that the payment was handled properly I called their customer support line and their agent informed me of the payoff amount as of that day and that it could take up to XXXX days for the account to show paid in full. I made the payment at that time per their instructions for the posted amount. 
After XXXX days I have now been informed that they will not show the account as paid in full for up to another XXXX days for the account to show as paid in full. Please note, they changed the terms of their agreement XXXX days after the payment was posted and now claim they have up to XXXX days to show an account as paid in full. 
The loans in question were for XXXX University and the University XXXX."
4647,"I have struggled to obtain accurate information about my loan, mainly repayment with First Mark Services. First Mark Services is servicing XXXX private loans. I received information from XXXX that my loan would no longer be serviced by them the first month after my loans came out of forbearance. My first month payment came from First Mark and was completely unaffordable. I called them immediately so see what I could do to get on a more affordable repayment plan. I was advised by a representative that I should call XXXX to see if they could restructure my loan so that I would be eligible to be enrolled in a repayment option that would work for me. When I called XXXX I was informed that it was "" severely inappropriate '' that I was advised by First Mark Services to call them because they no longer had access to my loan and to essentially stop calling them. I called First Mark Services the next day to inform them of what I was told by XXXX the representative said that he did not know of any other options open to me and that I should seek a 3rd party to reconsolidate my loan. I have been paying interest on these loans since I first obtained them years ago and my credit is not that great so that option is not really an option to me. I received multiple calls in regards to my account being past due and each time I spoke to a customer service representative to see if they could find something that would help me make payments. I spoke with someone about making partial payments and they told me that it did not make sense to do that because the late fees were so heavy that I was just making payments on the late fees and not actually towards my past due amount. Yesterday I spoke with a representative who informed me that I was eligible to get on a graduated payment plan that would drastically reduce my monthly payments if I could pay the past due balance. I felt so relieved! I asked to speak to a supervisor to inform them that I was displeased with the fact that my account was now two months past due because I could not afford the high monthly payment but if I had been informed of the graduated payment plan that I would have been able to pay from the get go. The supervisor then informed me that the previous representative was misinformed and that my account was in fact NOT eligible for graduated payments. I am now back at square one. I am receiving information on my loan and repayment options that are not true and I am not receiving the assistance and customer service that I believe that I deserve. I have tried very hard to portray how important maintaining a good standing with the company and keeping up with my payments is to me and First Mark just does not seem to care. I am unsure of what my options are now. I can not afford the only option they are offering me and I am confused because I am getting information that is true and helpful one second and then nothing the next. I have informed the company of how disappointed I am with the services and they seem to care less and have not offered to assist me in anyway."
1298,"I had ~ {$250000.00} in XXXX debt and enrolled in the PLSF program in XX/XX/XXXX ( accepted in XX/XX/XXXX/XX/XX/XXXX ). Once accepted, I was required to transfer my loans from my XXXX XXXX Servicer to FedLoan Servicer. 
XX/XX/2016 - Loans transferred from XXXX XXXX to FedLoan XX/XX/XXXX/XX/XX/2016 - Not all loans were transferred, error on part of FedLoan. Made request for remaining loans at XXXX XXXX to be transferred which took 6 weeks XX/XX/2016 - Advised that loans could not be forgiven unless converted to "" direct '' loans. Only XXXX of my XXXX were direct loans. 
XX/XX/XXXX - Consolidation loan request form submitted for XXXX loans to be consolidated into direct loans. Six weeks later, XXXX of the requested loans were consolidated appropriately, XXXX loans were not consolidated as requested and XXXX of my already direct loans were consolidated in error by FedLoan ( without request for consolidation on forms submitted ) XX/XX/XXXX - Multiple calls regarding incorrectly consolidated loans. At this time total loan amount had increased by {$10000.00} without record documenting how. Told by customer service request to review submitted, would take & gt ; XXXX weeks for someone to review complaint because "" this is the government '' XX/XX/2016 - Spoke with manager who reassured increase in loan amount was correct but no paper record could be provided. He would expedite direct consolidation reversal and consolidation of loans remaining from initial request in XX/XX/XXXX. Imperative that direct loans incorrectly consolidated be reversed to receive credit toward loan forgiveness for payments already made XX/XX/2016 - Direct loan consolidation reversed but XXXX loans still awaiting consolidation. Multiple calls - now XXXX of these XXXX loans are consolidated XX/XX/2016 - "" Consolidation complete '' letter despite XXXX loan still not being consolidated. 
XX/XX/2016 - Delinquent bill appears on account - amount taken out of my checking account but not applied to loans on FedLoan 's end Over this time period my loan amount has risen by {$50000.00} without documentation of how. Please help. When speaking with FedLoan consolidation experts they will "" submit a complaint '' but can not provide any immediate answers or assistance."
2803,"I submitted the XXXX Loan Forgiveness form XX/XX/XXXX. All information was correct on the form. I called for updates XX/XX/XXXX, XX/XX/XXXX, XX/XX/XXXX, XX/XX/XXXX, XX/XX/XXXX, and XXXX. On XX/XX/XXXX, after 90 days of processing, Navient told me that they sent me a letter denying my request on XX/XX/XXXX. However, every previous encounter I was told that the document was still in processing. When I pointed out these discrepancies, they simply said, "" sorry for the misunderstanding. '' Navient said my signature was missing, but it was not. I feel they are not being honest in their correspondence with me."
4108,"I received a call about a loan forgiveness program. I gave some information, but nothing too vital. The caller then hung up on me. I think it may have been a scammer. Not sure if they got what they wanted from me or not. The number was XXXX"
2206,"This student loan company advertises "" Do you work in public service? 
You may qualify for the Public Service Loan Forgiveness program. '' But then when one who qualifies for the forgiveness program applies, such as myself who has been XXXX in the Urban public school for some 12 years, one gets given the run around with misinformation as to why I do n't qualify. I borrowed less than {$3000.00} but will end up having to pay {$6000.00} ( according to all documentation so far, where this company says I will qualify for the program only after I have made {$150.00} payments, 13 of which qualify and 107 left to be fully qualified for the loan forgiveness program. Now by the time I have make all payments of {$50.00} a month, XXXX + XXXX equals 120 payments at XXXX x XXXX = {$6000.00}. 
Here is the Ltr. I 've been sent after applying XXXX for this program ( and being ignored two other times ). 

XX/XX/XXXX # XXXX # XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX Why We are Contacting You We reviewed your Public Service Loan Forgiveness ( PSLF ) Employment Certification forms ( ECF ) and have evaluated the number of qualifying payments made during the period of qualifying employment listed below. If your certified employment begin date is on or before XX/XX/XXXX, only the portion of your employment that falls after this date qualifies for PSLF Program purposes. 
The number of qualifying payments you have made during the qualifying employment period listed below, the total number of qualifying payments you have made during all periods of qualifying employment approved as of the date of this letter, the number of payments that are still required before you can apply for the forgiveness program, and the date you are expected to be eligible to apply for forgiveness are on the back of this letter. 
When can you apply for forgiveness? You may apply for loan forgiveness after you have made 120 on-time qualifying payments. You must be working for a qualifying public service organization at the time you submit the application for forgiveness and at the time the remaining balance on your loan is forgiven. A final determination of your eligibility for forgiveness will occur upon receipt of your application. 
While applying for and receiving forgiveness, you must continue full-time employment with a qualifying public service organization while making on-time qualifying payments under one of the approved repayment plans until you have received notice that you may cease making payments on your Direct Loans. 
Things to Remember Although we will maintain copies of any documents that we receive, we recommend that you keep copies of all forms that you submit and any supporting documentation regarding your employment and the PSLF Program. We also recommend that you submit an employment certification annually so that we can update you on your progress toward your forgiveness eligibility date. The Employment Certification Form and additional information regarding the program can be found on our website at MyFedLoan.org/PSLF XXXX XXXX XXXX ENOTIFY XXXX XXXX XXXX, XXXX, XXXX XXXX | M-F XXXX to XXXX ( ET ) | XXXX | XXXX XXXX | XXXX | XXXX XXXX Employer Name Begin Date Certified End Date Certified XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX/XXXX/XXXX XXXX/XXXX/XXXX"
1438,I Have provided proof in writing of XXXX XXXX dollars that was consolidated. proof!!! I have never been to a XXXX in my life. I need this handled. And there is absolutely no papers on that loan either ; I have proof of the XXXX XXXX not XXXX XXXX ; what is wrong with you people.
2915,"I have contacted my servicer multiple times asking for information about my contract, verification of amounts which have been paid and balances but they do not respond with the requested information. They send me letters back stating they are servicers of my federal student loans and ask again what information I 'm looking for even when it is clearly noted in the multiple letters sent my certified mail."
6514,I ca n't pay my loan. I am unemployed. Navigate just wants me to pay for forbearance everytime instead or lowering my payments.
899,"No matter how many payments or how high my payments were, my balance remained the same. If I lost a job and asked for help, lower payments, etc it was a circus. I get bills sent, sometimes I do n't. They do not send my tax documents as requested or required and make speaking to anyone for any reason impossible. They have also taken payments without my permission. When I requested forbearance they made it a nightmare and kick me off without my knowledge."
5721,"I have requested the terms of my original promissory note to be provided and Navient has refused to provide the documents corresponding to my original promissory note. I have requested a payment reduction. After being told I qualify for a different repayment plan and going through the efforts to provide detailed financial information, I was then told by Navient that I do not qualify for any payment reduction despite experiencing a financial hardship. They have refused to extend an extended repayment plan or an income-based re-payment plan. I am still in school completing a XXXX and they have refused to allow me an in-school deferment. Finally, I have requested the process by which I can apply for a reduction in interest rate or refinance given my now existing excellent credit. They refuse to give me any information about how I go about requesting a rate reduction. First I am told that I can apply. Then, I am told that I do not qualify yet they can not tell me the criteria by which one qualifies. I have also requested a release of co-signer and they refuse to provide that information."
6356,"When I applied for Sallie Mae private loans I was assured over and over by their phone workers that I could make changes on my payments depending upon my finances. I currently pay {$750.00} a month to Sallie Mae and have been unsuccessful in getting them to change that. I made an official complaint through the CFPB about this and received a call from Sallie Mae offering to "" work with me '' on my rate. They told me they were unable to change anything on my account because my cosigner and myself combined make enough income to pay my monthly fees. I am submitting a complaint because this was clearly far from transparent during the application process. Again, they assured me, based upon MY finances, not my cosigner 's, that I could make alterations in my payments. I was unable to make payments for XXXX months last year, and rather than put them on my cosigner, I was forced to go into forbearance, which ultimately led to an even higher monthly payment. 

My XXXX complaint is that my interest level is absurd, even having excellent credit. Half of my repayment is interest, and this, I feel, is exploitative. Sallie Mae can not carry on like this. I make regular on-time payments, and I demand a lower interest level."
1816,"When I was about XXXX I enrolled to go to XXXX College in XXXX, Utah. I was in a "" XXXX '' ( XXXX ) program under the impression that after a month I would be moved to a XXXX program, this never happened. I did graduate but they never gave me a diploma. I now owe Navient {$33000.00} for a 20 month XXXX degree. I also owe XXXX College another {$8000.00} for a private student loan that is accruing interest at a rate of about {$70.00} a month. XXXX college also told me I would be making around {$XXXX} a year and it was not wise to pursue education at a XXXX college because it would take too long. Obviously that did/is not happen. I believe I have been a victim of a predatory loan. Please help"
2702,"I am XXXX XXXX XXXX and have had a student loan on my son for about 16 years now and I pay back on it regularly. I now owe 'more ' on the loan than the original amount borrowed. The way interest is applied to the principle makes it go down very-very little. I have tried numerous times to work something out, but to no avail. At this rate I would die before the loan is paid off. What good would this be for anyone. Would n't it be more beneficial to have payments doable for the borrowers and have the loan totally paid off??? Also, the monthly payments are not doable for me as I am now fully XXXX and managing on a fixed income. I have served my Country in the XXXX XXXX for over 10 years and have been a XXXX for over 15 years. All this is to no avail on my behalf from any of the repayment plans on this Student Loan Program I request the loan be more doable to me to repay. The College Loan programs need to take a serious look to reduce debt in a more doable way as currently it is not doable for most Americans. There has to be light at the end of the tunnel on student debt. I do not see how the current college students will ever be out of debt at the current rate of interest being charged and the way it is applied to the principal. 
If we want the youth of America to receive College Degrees XXXX in order to be able to compete in the world employment markets something needs to be done now! 
But again as for 'me ', I would like to get my loan payments reduced, interest rates reduced and ( so to speak ) light at the end of the tunnel."
8738,"On XXXX/XXXX/16 I received a letter from the collection company stating that they would settle the student loan debt by setting up monthly payments of {$250.00} per month for 550 months or until the debt is paid in full. Part of the agreement was that after the 3rd on time payment they would reduce the interest rate on the balance of {$130000.00} from 10 % to .001 % for the remainder of the payment terms. I called the collection company on XXXX/XXXX/16 @ XXXX to accept the terms and set up automatic payments from my checking account. The first payment was to come out on XXXX/XXXX/16 which it did. Then I had another payment come out on XXXX/XXXX/16. However I did not have a payment come out for XXXX/XXXX/16. When I called on XXXX/XXXX/16 to inquire as to why no payment came out, they stated that the account had been recalled by the creditor ( XXXX ) on XXXX/XXXX/16 and then resent to the collector ( Allied Interstate ) on XXXX/XXXX/16. This process caused the original account number to be cancelled and a new account number to be issued. It also caused the automatic payments to be cancelled. I attempted to call the collection company on XXXX/XXXX/16, XXXX/XXXX/16, XXXX/XXXX/16, XXXX/XXXX/16, & XXXX/XXXX/16 to try to resolve this matter and have the collector reinstate the original payment agreement. On all of the above dates I asked for a member of management to assist with this issue. I talked to XXXX XXXX & XXXX XXXX whose titles are Vice President of Operations. Neither XXXX of these people were willing to reinstate the original terms of our agreement or contract. I made the first XXXX payments totaling {$500.00} for nothing. The collection company also refused to correct the calculated interest per the agreement so that the rate would reduce to .001 % effective XXXX/XXXX/16. Since XXXX/XXXX/16, I have been incorrectly charged over {$3000.00} in interest. I then received a response from XXXX XXXX to a complaint that I filed on XXXX/XXXX/16 stating the actions above. XXXX XXXX, Assistant Manager of Regulatory Compliance, then responded on XXXX/XXXX/16. She stated in her response that all I had to do was contact XXXX XXXX, Assistant VP of Operations to make my third payment and they would resume the program under my original terms and then reduce the interest to .01 %. I called XXXX XXXX on XXXX - no answer left a message, XXXX - no answer left a message, XXXX - no answer left a message, and then I called XXXX XXXX on XXXX no answer left a message. Then later on XXXX XXXX XXXX magically called me back. We talked for 19 minutes and he insisted that what XXXX XXXX wrote on her response was not accurate nor was it an offer that I could take. Rather that since I refused to make the third payment that I would need to start all over again. I stated to XXXX XXXX that I did not refuse to make any payment, that the company did not take the payment out of my account as they were scheduled to do and I have been in dispute with them ever since. He refused to acknowledge any issue on their end, but rather deflect to my end insisting it is all my fault. This company continues to use deceptive, deceitful, and malicious collection practices to target people and cause harm. They lie about the facts and then try to forcefully coerce you into paying more money than you should. I implore those who can to intervene and stop them from continuing to harm others."
4478,"I have been attempting to apply for an unemployment deferment because I was furloughed by the XXXX on XXXX XXXX, 2016. ECSI, which services the Perkins loans I borrowed to afford XXXX school, refuses to accept my proof of unemployment. I do n't have any money, and my low credit score due to their refusal is affecting my ability to secure a year-round full-time job."
9156,"I originally receive a letter of pending wage garnishment from ECMC, providing instructions on how to request a hearing and submit information on how a garnishment of XXXX % would cause a financial hardship. I sent a letter stating my financial case and requesting a hearing/review within the allotted time. No contact from the company. The next communication I received was from my employer with a copy of an order of wage garnishment from another company called XXXX XXXX XXXX. I was never given the hearing or review that I requested."
7980,"I am unable to pay the full amount required for my private loans. I asked for a decrease and they only offered a XXXX dollar reduction. I am only working part-time. They said there are no other options at this time. I said, "" So you 'd rather I pay nothing? '' and she replied, "" You ca n't call a bank and demand your loan payment be lowered. '' She then stated it will "" hurt me '' if I do n't pay."
7069,"I have XXXX loans serviced by ACS. I made XXXX payments in XXXX, XXXX over the amount of my monthly payment, thinking it would be applied to my XXXX payment. ACS informed that they do not accept prepayments and my XXXX payment is now past due. I have paid ACS more than my monthly amount numerous times over the past year and the money has never been applied to the next month."
6586,"I took out a student loan XX/XX/1993 with plans to go to XXXX school. I was never able to attend. Since then I have been through XXXX chapter XXXX bankruptcies. My student Loan is through Navient. I am unable to pay. Beginning about 6 months ago, they began calling me several times a day. Since then I have told them verbally to cease and desist contact. I have sent two ( 2 ) separates letters ( each sent certified mail ) demanding they cease and desist. The calls stopped for a little while but have started up again. Now they are contacting family and friends. I know this is illegal. I want all contact to cease. I want them to know if they continue I will sue for violation of the Fair Debt collections Act."
5423,"XXXX, Direct loans and other companies have constantly caused problems which damaged my credit and has led to filing bankruptcy twice. They have constant sold my loan from one company to the next capitalizing the interest over and over. I never received the interest rate that they promised over the phone. This has been a constant financial burden to me in such that it has caused me severe financial harm. They would ask for paperwork to be sent to them over and over stating they got it but it was lost or claiming I did not send it."
9041,I was in school and was involved in a XXXX accident where I XXXX and could n't work and was offered a partial scholarship to XXXX at the school but that was no longer an option after the accident. I could n't go to school cuz I was in a hospital out in a different XXXX in a XXXX. After I started to recover I was in so much XXXX. I was in and out of XXXX the financial hole I had dug myself .The late fees I had occurred in that time period of recovering it has seriously damaged my credit and has made moving on with my life extremely difficult from car loans to home loans.
5722,"I have a private student loan with AES. 
The original lender was XXXX XXXX XXXX. 
The original loan amount was for {$16000.00}. 
My balance with a few deferments here and there is now {$24000.00}! I make my payments every month and they keep increasing my balance. They harass me and tell me that I am late on a payment when I am not. 
They are reporting a double balance on my dad 's credit as the cosigner. The way they are amortizing the interest has to be criminal. I was attending XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX college at the time I took out the loan."
3578,"I am currently on a pay-as-able plan and not paying anything. My income is indeed too low. My XXXX year old father co-signed for a small summer loan -- a PLUS loan -- and TWICE now Navient has tried to collection from him ( the co-signer ), even though I am considered current. They readily admitted their mistake AND apologized ( to me ) for their error and for upsetting him. But he is spooked by this and his demanded that I pay it off. Fine .. I barely have enough money, but can do it. The loan as originated was {$3600.00} ... but here 's the thing, they want {$6300.00} for the pay-off amount. That 's almost double the original amount, so I asked them ; can we not agree on a more reasonable payoff amount? I offered {$4200.00} cash .. today. Their answer was "" we do not negotiate '' pay-off amounts. We 're not a bank, we 're the Dept. of Education. '' Can this be right? Thanks in advance for your attention to this inquiry."
2919,"I consolidated my loans through FedLoan Servicing. I am currently on PSLF and as instructed, have been attempting to get on the lowest payment plan since approximately XX/XX/XXXX. I was originally quoted as having a monthly bill of approximately {$220.00}. However, when my first bill came in ( XX/XX/XXXX I believe ), the bill was approximately {$330.00}. I was told that I needed to switch to the revised income based repayment plan to get the monthly bill I was originally quoted. I reapplied and was given the same monthly bill amount. I was told there was an error and that I needed to reapply once more. I did so, was quoted at approximately {$220.00}, but then there was another error. For some reason, I was not switched to a different plan and my bill was still {$330.00}. This continued for months. I do n't know how many times I have reapplied. The most recent application was filed on XX/XX/XXXX. During all the period ( s ) when I awaited the determination of what new plan I would be assigned, the account was switched to standard repayment ( a bill of approximately {$500.00} per month ). I called and was informed that unless I went into forbearance, I would need to make standard repayments. I can not afford {$500.00} a month, so I had no choice. As a result of all this, my account has been in forbearance all but one month since XX/XX/XXXX. I have finally been informed that I will be switching to the pay as you earn plan and will have a bill of {$210.00} per month starting on XX/XX/XXXX. That is what I wanted back in XX/XX/XXXX when I originally applied. Meanwhile, I have been in forbearance. As such I have only been able to make one qualifying payment towards the 120 for PSLF and my overall debt has increased greatly due to these forbearances. This is just wrong, plain and simple. Even if you only consider my most recent application, it has taken four months to process. If you consider the time since my initial application, it has been ten months. Additionally, in XX/XX/XXXX I will be switching to a new job. I do not want to have to go through the same thing all over again and wait ten months!"
8440,"Wells Fargo has been charging me late fees over the past 8 months that have not been necessary. I have paid {$28.00} for each late fee for multiple months. This is not including a {$35.00} late fee from another bank, XXXX, each month as they continued to draw from after I had filled out paperwork to have it come out of a different account and later had to cancel that account to keep from being over-drafted. I called to sit on hold with bankers for hours each time trying to correct the issue. Late fees of the recent months ( XXXX, XXXX and XXXX ) have been waived but not before effecting my credit."
7350,"I was contacted by a company, Navient that indicated i had a loan from XX/XX/XXXX that was not paid. Since it was 8 years old and I had never heard about this before I asked for proof. This was in XX/XX/XXXX. After a dozen phone calls and letters to Navient I finally contacted the XXXX to help me obtain the proof of this loan, I received proof on XX/XX/XXXX with a note that said I was now past due. I do not think this is fair, It took them six months to get me proof that I owed the money and they want to tell me i am past due and report to the credit agencies and charge me interest on the time it took for them to provide the proof of the loan, which is still in question. I had filed bankruptcy in XX/XX/XXXX, and i was a victim of identity theft, so I have to be careful and I need proof of a loan that shows up after 8 years from nowhere. 
I really think that the company should let me verify the loan, and forgive the interest accrued while I was waiting for them to provide the documents. 

XXXX"
1558,"Navient is refusing to place me in an income driven payment plan due to that fact that I have not submitted a XXXX for a secondary job I had earlier in the year. However, I submitted a signed affidavit stating how much money I made and per the Student Loan Income-Driven Repayment Plan application, that kind of information is accepted as income verification. I followed the instructions completely. However, as the documents attached show, they are saying I have not provided income verification. They are attempting to place me in the standard repayment option. 
Additionally, this past XX/XX/XXXX I informed Navient that I was re-entering school and asked them to NOT place my loans in deferment, however they placed my loans in deferment anyway, and informed me that I would not be even able to enter into a payment plan for XXXX months after leaving the deferment. So I can not make qualified payments for a payment plan for loan forgiveness until XX/XX/XXXX now."
2810,"I graduated from my university and XXXX in the military in XXXX. I should have the 6 % interest rate on my student loan according to the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act ( SCRA ). ACS Education Services has my interest at 6.8 % and told me that they need a copy of my orders to verify that I am in the military. I emailed them a copy of my XXXX XXXX XXXX in XX/XX/XXXX ( showing my XXXX as XXXX XXXX ) as well as my XXXX ( XXXX XXXX, XXXX XXXX ) showing that I will be in the military until XXXX. They rejected both of these documents for "" title and authority '' because they wanted the rank and branch spelled out. However, every military document has the rank or branch abbreviated. I asked what specific DA/DD form they accept and they keep saying "" military orders. '' I 've given them several different military documents and orders that show my full name, SSN, and service dates yet they keep getting rejected. It is illegal for them to reject official DOD documents and forms. I believe this is their way of scamming the system to prevent service members from getting the lower interest rate. My 6.8 % interest rate needs to be corrected to 6 %, back-dated to XXXX XXXX, and the entire loan amount owed should be corrected based on the 6 % interest instead of the 6.8 % applied over the last six years. They have been overcharging me for the past six years and I should get the amount paid on the 0.8 % refunded."
9299,"Performant Recovery, Inc. contacted me at work via phone in XXXX 2016. I do not have any debt and believed it was a scam. 

Performant Recovery , Inc. then sent its first letter to my house dated on XXXX XXXX, 2016 ( with no outside post-marking ), received in mailbox XXXX XXXX, 2016 and disputed XXXX XXXX, 2016 via certified mailed. This is in violation of the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act because a "" validation notice '' telling me what the debt was about was not sent within five days after first contact in XXXX 2016. 

I have received one of the two delivery receipts of my certified letters sent to Performant Recovery , Inc. with tracking information it was delivered and received on XXXX XXXX, 2016. Two additional dispute letters were sent XXXX XXXX, 2016 to different Performant Recovery, Inc. addresses. 

I have received correspondence dated XXXX XXXX, 2016 ( post-marked XXXX XXXX, 2016 ), received in mailbox XXXX XXXX, 2016, violating the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act because it is documentation looking like it is legal format of a court or lawsuit claimant. 

The social security number on the paperwork is not mine and the company is claiming they will garnish my wages ( again another violation without due process and court order ). 

Additionally, the address to send remittance is constantly changing on the correspondence."
6583,"Navient LLC, a debt collector, has failed to respond to my numerous demands to cease and desist. They have invaded my credit Federal Credit Report, and continued to send threating letters, as well continued harassing me with phone calls. They have contacted other family members in connection to this alleged debt, via emails and phone calls, family members that are not associated with the matter in any way. 
Navient LLC is under some delusion they are not a debt collector, and not subject to the FDCPA, because the purchase, sale, or transfer of the alleged debt took place while "" it was not in default ''. I again demanded Navient send me information with a dispute letter in XXXX, which was ignored, and again in XXXX, which thus far remains unanswered. The alleged loan was in default as far back as 2011, and any records Navient LLC has obtained are either incomplete, inaccurate, or they have not done a meaningful review. Either way, they have not answered properly in any case. In addition, the conflicting information received from Navient, as to who they are, has prompted me to file a FTC Identity Theft Report # XXXX. In one letter they are a servicer, the next an assignee. They say they are not a debt collector, but include a mini Miranda at the bottom of the letter. Navient 's lack of correct information, and confusing letters, warrants an investigation by the FTC as to how my personal private information was obtained w/o my authorization or knowledge. 
In any case, Navient LLC is not a creditor of mine, and even if they are working for another entity that purports to be a creditor, they would both be regulated by the FDCPA, and will abide by the provisions of such. I have on numerous occasions asserted my right to dispose of this matter under 15 USC 1692c. I have disputed the alleged debt. Navient 's only response is to continue sending me threating letters, and harassing me with phone calls, saying they do n't have to stop, and that I have no protection from them, along with threats of a lawsuit."
1312,I believe that I am a victim of shortcuts or deception by Navient- XXXX of misappropriating advance payments on my student loan accounts.
4898,"I have multiple student loans with XXXX/Navient. Between XXXX my student loan payments were being misapplied to either the wrong loans or to only one loan out of the multiple. The loans went into default even after several phone calls to XXXX XXXX to resolve the issue including providing proof of payment. Ultimately three of my loans went into collections and they reported marks on my credit report. I am now repaying my loans on the loans in collections. However, even those payments are being misapplied or suddenly stopped all together ( I have auto debit ). I have received letters now asking for full payment of the $ XXXX I owe them."
9383,"This company is telling me that in order to get out of default, they figure repayment plans with gross income and family size only. They wanted {$800.00} a month, plus the {$610.00} out in wage garnishment. The federal student loan website that a rehabilitation plan must be a "" reasonable '' amount. I do not think this is a reasonable amount and would like some help with getting out of default."
38,"I have XXXX federal loans that Navient sold off to the XXXX out right over 1.5 years ago and they still report to creditors monthly that I have defaulted on these loans. I attempted to get this resolved several times with Navient but they just say that I need to pay more on my other private loans if I do not wanting them to report the information. I explain to the person on the phone that each loan is reported sperately and the reason I do not pay them for these loan is that they are no longer serviced by Navient but they inevitably transferring me around to a supervisor which says they are it is an automated system and I will need to fax them the information or they can not do anything about it. when I send the fax I receive a conformation page but they say it went to a different branch or the fax went to another floor, so they do n't have access to the information. Once the manager said they would call me back once they file was uploaded to my account but they never called back. So I assume it still has yet to be added to my account. I believe this inappropriate and in correct reporting by Navient is being done intentionally and has caused significant false financial and credit damage to me and my Father ( co-signer ). This past year I missed a lot of scholarship deadlines because they are falsely reporting that I am delinquent. Costing me thousands in possible financial Aid, grants and scholarships. In addition to the fact that they have illegally monthly report that I am not paying on these federal loans and that I am in Default, which has brought my credit report significantly down for the part year and a half. I have spoken numerous times With XXXX and they say there is nothing they can do about it except report accurately that I have a payment plan in place and I am activly paying on the loans. I have reached out to my school as well as XXXX of the XXXX credit reporting agency 's they can not do much either except tell me that it is illegal and advise me to keep working on it. I feel very frustrated with Navient and they 're illegal practices that no one seems to be holding them accountable for. It is targeting me at best and at worst having a incorrect reporting system in place, that they have known about, and destroying countless others financial future for personal gain at worst. Please help advise me about what else I can do. ( I do have documentation to support my claim )"
6604,"I have a private student loan with Wells Fargo and I paid the loan faithfully for 4 years. The loan started out at about XXXX, and only reduced to XXXX after 4 years of payments at {$250.00} a month. I received a forbearance when I was enrolled in school for 6 months, then I was informed that my payment was increased to $ XXXXmonth. I called Wells Fargo numerous times in an attempt to resolve the issue and come to an affordable payment option but I was unsuccessful. I am in default at this time due to an inability to pay and lack of assistance on their end."
557,"Navient owns XXXX different student loans of mine ; XXXX federal and XXXX private. I called to request a lower payment option as they were increasing my monthly payment significantly, and they would ONLY lower my payment if I would agree to a graduated repayment plan that will increase my loan payment by 400 % in two years. I requested to extend my loan terms in efforts to negotiate but I was told that because my loans did not total {$30000.00}, they could not extend the terms. My loans currently total XXXX. I was {$200.00} under this magical {$30000.00} mark, and they refused to assist or make an exception. I waited on hold for XXXX hours to "" resolve '' the issue and this was the only way I was informed that I could make my loans affordable."
6898,"Amid growing criticism from regulatory agencies and legislatures in Washington, At the end of XX/XX/2014, Wells Fargo announced that it would extend it 's student loan modification program. In the release of the news, according to the Washington XXXX, "" Wells Fargo will consider lowering the interest rate of any borrower who can demonstrate hardship '' and that Wells Fargo will "" reduce interest rates to as little a 1 % for a few months or the life of the loan, depending on the borrower 's circumstances ''. 


By the time I heard this news, I had already been struggling with my Wells Fargo student loan payment for nearly a year. I had recently applied to Wells Fargo 's pilot loan modification program, showing them that my student loan payment took nearly half of my take home pay. However I was denied, because Wells Fargo asserted that my cosigner could make the full payment. When we explained that my cosigner was burdened by medical bills, as XXXX immediate family members were in permanent XXXX, Wells Fargo said they do not take medical expenses into account when assessing hardship. 

I followed up with Wells Fargo after they announced the expansion of their modification program, as I could surely show prove that my Wells Fargo Student loan payments were a financial hardship. I was denied again because Wells Fargo insisted that my cosigner could make the full payment. 

Wells Fargo continued to refuse to work with me. They said that my only option was to refinance. When I expressed concern over losing my option to an "" in-school forbearance '', as Wells Fargo Consolidation Loans do not have in-school forbearance options, an employee at the executive office told me that some borrowers who were returning to school were being allowed to refinance and keep their rights to an in-school forbearance as long as they were registered for school. However I was n't returning to school for a year. The employee went to a board with my case to see if I could keep me in-school forbearance on a consolidation loan like some other borrowers were able to, but I was denied. It 's troubling that certain borrowers are receiving options and other 's are n't. 

I also explained to Wells Fargo that I no longer have access to a cosigner. My father could not cosign for a consolidation loan due to his financial hardship. I applied for a Wells Fargo consolidation loan without a cosigner, and was denied, despite have a credit score of XXXX, a clean credit report,, and having always made my student loan payments on time. Thus, the only option Wells Fargo offered was not a solution after all. I was willing to work with Wells Fargo, but it was Wells Fargo that refused to work towards a mutually satisfactory payment with me. 

Luckily, I was able to refinance my student loan with another lender, and am thankfully no longer a customer to Wells Fargo. Needless to say after that experience I will never do business with Wells Fargo again. Although I am no longer a customer to Wells Fargo, I want to share the reality of this "" modification program '', and how few people it will actually apply to. 

It is clear that the Wells Fargo 's student loan modification program was just a PR move, a preemptive measure to take the wind out of the sails of activists, regulators, and legislatures who were fighting to help distressed borrowers. Wells Fargo said that their program would reach XXXX borrowers. That is but a fraction of the {$11.00} XXXX in student loans that Wells Fargo services. over 90 % of Wells Fargo student loans have cosigners, so the vast majority of distressed borrowers will continue to be refused assistance, If Wells Fargo continues to refuse to work with borrowers, the CFPB and other regulatory agencies need take action to help distressed borrowers."
8326,I am paying XXXX a month for my navient student loan ( I have about XXXX that each have a 10 % interest rate ). I have called this loan company many times to try and change the length of the payment. They will not do anything to help. I also have sallie mae student loans which I owe XXXX a month and they will not help with my payment plans as well. I am drowning in student loan debt. I also have federal student loans. I am paying over XXXX a month in student loans and no one is helping me and these private loan companies do not accommodate my financial situations.
5063,"I had requested to be taken off the auto-dialing system, to which the company complied. My account is currently in collections due to financial hardship and they continuously call me during work hours and even on Sundays. I have requested multiple times to not call during the hours of XXXX - XXXX Monday through Friday and no calls on Sunday. They state they have "" noted the file '' but I keep receiving calls during these requested no call times. When I address it with the worker and/or their supervisor, they 're response is always : "" our system is not capable of not making calls regardless of the customers request. '' Which I find odd if I am no longer on an auto dial system, the person manually calling me should see the "" notation '' that states not to call during these hours. 

When I present this ongoing issue to workers and their supervisors, their response is always as follows : "" Sir, you have stated you can not talk during these hours yet you pick up to the phone to tell us that you can not talk. In this amount of time we could have resolved your issue. '' I explain to them that I am at work and can not discuss my account during these hours and they continuously harass me stating that I am clearly able to discuss my account if I have the time to call and complain. 

They seem to be violating my requests to not call during certain times and I am suspicious as to if my request for being removed from the auto dialing system has even been completed. 

Navient employees are quick to say that my account is past due and I need to pay a certain amount to bring it current, yet whenever I look at my account online, there are different amounts listed as to what would be needed to bring it current. This is misleading information. I have never been able to have Navient confirm what exact amount is owed or when my billing cycle generates. An employee on XX/XX/2017 informed me I could make a payment of {$100.00} to bring my account current, yet today on XX/XX/2017 the employee stated I needed to pay {$130.00} This is becoming a headache and seems very unethical in their collection practices. I am constantly being presented with rude workers who do not want to help resolve the issue, instead want to harass. I have asked "" supervisors '' multiple times to review the recorded phone calls to see how their employees treat customers and they state they will, but I doubt they ever do. If they were to listen to my phone calls, they would see how the employees are not there to help but to ridicule and demean those who may not be able to pay at this time."
8420,I pay XXXX per month for my loans. I can not afford this. The lender initially helped with income repayment and will no longer assist what so ever.
6882,"I was referred to Sally Mae to assist me with paying tuition. With my grandmother being a consigner I was approved right away. I have a total of four loans with Sally Mae. After graduating from college and trying to find employment Sally Mae started sending threatening letters and harassing phones call to me and my grandmother. They even went as far as calling my grandmothers place of employment harassing her. They are wanted almost {$1000.00} a month for payments. As I explained to them I was only making a certain amount an hour and it was impossible to pay what they were asking for. I agreed on my own to pay what I could and they stated "" because it is not the amount we want we will still call you ''. I know it is against the law for them to call after I requested not to. However they continued. They said that they do not offer any Income Based Repayment Plans. Sally Mae has called my parents, my aunts and my siblings trying to get ahold of me. This is absurd. I am filing a formal complaint against Sally Mae for harassment. They do not care that I have to survive on my own and can not pay {$1000.00} a month for four loans. The economy is not the greatest and companies are not paying college grads enough money to even pay their bills. Sally Mae is a bully."
5883,"I am currently in XXXX so my loans are in repayment. I have both federal and private loans I 'm trying to get ahead and have been putting any extra money towards my loans. AES manages my XXXX private loans. While examining their payment history tab I 've discovered that all my payments have been going towards interest. As you know interest payments are useless. It 's principle payments that help get the balance down on loans and save you interest. In the payment screen there is no option to direct your payment whether it be interest, principle, or mix. The only option is to direct which loan you want the payment to go. I feel like I 've wasted my hard-earned money. This loan servicing company should allow you to decide how you want YOUR payments handled."
2563,"I have an issue with Navient, my loan servicer, because they have not fulfilled my request for an Income-Based Repayment loan repayment schedule. 

I have requested income-based repayment options from Navient on multiple occasions. Most recently on XX/XX/2016. They tell me I need to submit proof of income repayments. I used their website to upload them, based on advice from their support staff on the phone, and then Navient sends me a letter stating they can not process my application because they did not receive it. This is a problem for me, because it pushes back the date that my loan may be reduced, which I desperately need since my wife 's income changed significantly. 

I need support to ensure that Navient will process my IBR application and they seem unwilling or unable to help. I would also accept my loans being transferred to another provider given that Navient has well-documented problems."
161,"Over the part 9 months, I have made prepayments on my highest interest rate loan that is serviced by Navient. During that time period, Navient, rather than apply my prepayments to the loan I specifically designated, applied my prepayments to my lowest interest rate loans."
3502,"In XXXX of XXXX I enrolled in classes at the XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX Division. I took out student loans in order to get a XXXX. When discussing attending the school with the admissions advisor I was pressured to sign up as quickly as possible. I was offered a {$100.00} book voucher and waived application fee. I did not immediately cave in to the pressure, instead I took a couple of weeks to think things over and make sure I knew what I was getting into and making the right decision. 

Over those couple of weeks I was in contact with the admissions and financial aid advisors. I explained my financial situation ; married, XXXX XXXX XXXX, with a young child, a mortgage, lots of debt. I thought their job was to guide me through this process. I trusted them. I did n't know that I needed to mistrust everything they said as if they were a used car dealer. I told them I could only go back to school if I had no out of pocket expenses during the time I was attending school. Once I graduated and got a better job, then I could pay. But with my current bills and current low paying job there was no way I could afford anything out of pocket. 

I was assured I would pay nothing out of pocket. I enrolled. in late XXXX I began receiving bills for tuition. I sent the financial aid department many emails and placed many phone calls. All were ignored. It took months to get answers. Finally in XXXX XXXX I was told that I had hit the Federal Aggregate Loan Limit. That was my first time hearing that term. Apparently there was a limit to what could be borrowed, meaning that the initial advisors in XXXX were not truthful with me. I was told at this point that I would need to pay out of pocket or get personal loans. I attempted to get personal loans to finish the degree that I was about XXXX of the way through. I was denied by every bank I tried because I had too much student loan debt. I was forced to withdraw. 

I would 've never enrolled in the school had I known this information up front. Now I owe {$70000.00} for a degree I could n't even finish and I will never be able to pay that back. Due to this situation, I ended up with XXXX and was hospitalized twice, once for 1 day and another time for 3 days, due to severe anxiety attacks. I had to go on anti-depressants so I could function on a day to day basis. All because the XXXX XXXX lied to me to get me to enroll. I have {$70000.00} in student loan debt and have run up credit cards paying for the hospital stays, doctor visits, and prescriptions. I am so much worse off than I was before enrolling in college. 

I thought I was making a good choice for my life by choosing to go back to college. Now I see it as the worst decision of my life. I ruined my life. They ruined my life. So much for the American Dream. I have no faith in our government any more since it seems that the XXXX is complicit in allowing for-profit schools like XXXX XXXX and others to prey on students like me and use us to steal our Federal aid dollars."
1918,"XXXX XXXX purchased My Student Loans from ECMC Just before these loans were purchased by XXXX, ECMC charged me {$3200.00} in what they were referring to as "" Collection Costs '' ECMC stated previously that if I brought these loans out of Default these collection costs would be dropped or lowered down to 6.7 % but this never happened These collection costs were then passed on to XXXX in what was just referred as "" Unpaid Principal Balance ''"
4901,"I requested payment relief, and it was granted to me. Terms were that I would pay {$50.00} per month for the next 3 months, and then resume regular monthly payments. I have paid the XXXX each month, but I have been recieving letters, multiple phone calls daily from a collection agency, and it has been reported on my credit report that I am past due on my payments. This is the second time this company has done this."
299,"I have a unsubsidized Stafford loan from college of {$7500.00} that I did not receive any communication about for nearly six years while I was in XXXX XXXX. Then I get a letter in the mail after six years of no communication stating that I owed Nelnet an extra {$3500.00} in loan interest. Had I been reminded of my loan status or amount of loan interest, I would have begun repayment earlier and not incurred as much interest."
5319,"My student loan was XXXX XXXX now Navient. I called many times in the past to ask about different options because I could not afford to pay and phone representatives keep giving me the run around and they said that is was nothing they could do. I mentioned that they must have something to pay the loans back, meaning a program so that I could find something more affordable. They charged me outstanding fees on my account, told me to get in a forbearance, they also at some point when I take a break from school, had me on interest only payments. I have called many times and people over the phone have not and act like they could not give me options. They were aggressive and told me I just need to pay the money. At one point I was getting public assistance and I asked do they have something for people who are unemployed, do you charge interest if you are on a state program. I ca n't remember what year I asked the question. However, no one would help me. Private loans for Naivent aka XXXX XXXX are the worst ones to get because they originally did not explain how this effects me the in the lone run, that the interest rates change, that the loans would start getting interest as soon as I opened the loan. I was a kid still wet behind the ears, at XXXX, no kid every understands that type of information. I feel tricked and disguised with the way my loan situation has turned out and I am very disappointed that the government did not regulate private loans better to protect kids/ young adults for trickery."
9460,They continue to report that my loans are delinquent when I consolidated my loans and I am currently in school so I am not supposed to pay due to an in-school deferment. They refuse to remove item.
2375,"I am being harrassed by Navient about a student loan. I filed bankruptcy and this loan was put on hold. Since coming out of bankruptcy, I receive calls twice a day about my student loan. I have contacted the company and told them I can not pay what they want monthly. I am sending payments according to my finances. I am a senior citizen and am on a fixed income with a lot of medical bills."
7332,"In XXXX, I took out XXXX loans with XXXX XXXX, a private student lender. During the financial crisis, the company went bankrupt and the loan was sold off XXXX times and ended up being owned by Wells Fargo. Time passed and I graduated in XXXX XXXX. I was n't made aware of the multiple sales of my loans until Wells Fargo XXXX collections department called in XX/XX/XXXX XXXX. They harassed me and my parents with endless phone calls, threatening to take my parents ' home and sue me if I did n't make full arrears payments. I did what I could to make it work ; I got a new job and moved to a new city to earn a little more money ( my monthly payments on all my loans was around $ XXXX/mo and I only earned {$29000.00} a year. I made monthly payments but fell behind XXXX month. Within days, they charged off the loans and demanded payment in full. While they were threatening more legal action, I contacted attorneys, bankers, my legislators and the CFPB, and because my legislators and the CFPB contacted them directly, WF XXXX finally started to work with me on a repayment plan. 
Since that time, I have made consistent, on-time, in-full payments each month and have been attempting to rebuild my credit. I took a thorough look at my credit report recently and noticed Wells Fargo has been incorrectly reporting my repayment status ever since our repayment agreement was reached. It shows I 've been 90 days late at least XXXX times on each loan, and it 's simply not true. I 've paid on time each month, and have actually increased the payment amount I send them above our agreed-to amount. My credit report also shows that I have a past due balance on each loan, which is also inaccurate. Upon my initial contact with WF XXXX, the number of late payments showing on my XXXX credit report dropped from XXXX for each loan to XXXX for each loan, so obviously, someone at WF XXXX thought what they were doing was wrong, but those XXXX payments should still not be on my credit report. 
These specific items have prevented me from being able to get a small car loan from my credit union to replace my aging vehicle. Where I live, a person must have a reliable car to function - we do n't have good transit service. When I applied for the auto loan, I was told the loan was denied specifically because of these items on my credit report. 
I have attempted to remedy the situation by contacting Wells Fargo XXXX directly, but they claim they have the right to report my accounts in this way. I 'm not disputing the charged-off status of the loans ( though I do still think how they handled this was wrong in every way imaginable and the loan should still be in a normal status ). I am disputing the intentionally inaccurate reporting of my accounts as having been 90 days late XXXX times on each loan and having a past due balance on each loan. I would really like the CFPB 's assistance with the matter, because it seems it 's the only way anything will change."
6526,"AES is the worst financial institution I have ever dealt with ( and I 've XXXX ). They continually mislead consumers with their billing statements. They deliberately exclude the accrued interest on principal balances and do NOT show the proper account balance on regular billing cycles! 

This harms consumers. We can not make the best, most informed repayment decisions if the information we are receiving is partial and misleading. 

I am disgusted with this company. These interest rates are so outrageous they should be illegal. Incorrect or incomplete customer correspondence & billing should be a crime and this company should be prosecuted and heavily fined."
2735,"I attend XXXX and graduated in XXXX, and like most people my age I live at the poverty level. XXXX assumed my loan from my old loan holder in XXXX of XXXX and have been nothing but a problem to work with. I have submitted paper work for a IBR with XXXX or Utah XXXX XXXX Assistance XXXX 3 times and they still have not applied it to my loan. Once I submitted it through the mail and they subsequently lost it. The next 2 times I submitted it through the electronic data base on studentloans.gov and I have given them 60 days to process the paper work. I asked for a deferment for XXXX XXXX, XXXX payment during this time to apply to the loans and was assured it would go through by a customer representative from XXXX. I opened a letter this morning, XXXX XXXX, XXXX from XXXX that shows I am 11 days delinquent for the loans that I was told I would have a deferment on."
9229,"In 2013 my students loans went into a repayment status, with an initial payment date of XXXX/XXXX/2013. I did not receive my repayment terms as they were sent to a temporary address and I was in the process of moving. I contacted the lender ( XXXX XXXX XXXX ) on XXXX/XXXX/2013 via their messaging system, as suggested in their emails, to inquire about placing my loans into a deferment status XXXX derogatory reporting had not begun ). The response from the lender was to complete an eligibility quiz on their website, and submit produced form, to which I obliged. In XXXX I retrieved the response, and submitted the form produced after completing the lenders eligibility quiz to the loan deferment department as directed, and assumed my loans were placed in deferment as indicated on the website. 
Two months later I noticed derogatory marks on my credit report and contacted the lender, at which time, due to their mistake, they agreed to backdate my forbearance and "" remove all delinquencies '' from my account. 
The lender has since refused to pass the updated account information along to the credit reporting agencies. I have disputed the delinquencies with the lender, credit reporting agencies, and the ombudsman on several occasions, however, the lender is refusing to update the account information stating because it was accurate "" at one time '', they do not have to remove the derogatory remarks from my account. In addition XXXX stated they were following XXXX guidelines by keeping inaccurate information on my credit report. I have since confirmed with XXXX representatives, this is untrue. 
The lender 's failure to report complete and accurate account information is a violation of the FCRA section 623 ( a ). Furthermore on XXXX, I was advised the lender would not report any of my payments while the loan was in deferment status, and advised I put my loans into a repayment status if I wanted my payments to be reported, this is also a violation of the FCRA. 
At the advice of the lender I removed the loans from deferment, and they have since started reporting payments. 
I have since learned that not reporting payments to an account is a violation of the FCRA and requested to have my loans account changes removed. My loans have been placed back into a deferment status, however, they have not reversed any of the compounded interest. 
I filed a compliant with the Ombudsman and was advised on XXXX by representative XXXX XXXX that student loan lenders are required to follow the same regulations as other lenders and directed my to the Title 34, however, no where in the Title 34 does it state that it negates other Federal Regulations, in fact there are several references to compliance with FCRA, therefore the lender is not above government guidelines and must report the retroactive deferment status, and removed delinquencies. 
The attached documentation shows my accounts were in a General Forbearance starting XXXX/XXXX/13, meaning no payments due from that date forward. However they are reporting my as delinquent in XXXX, XXXX, and XXXX 2013. Their failure to update the credit reporting agencies with the retroactive deferment date and updated payment statuses is a violation of FCRA 623 ( a ). Please investigate and request removal"
2394,"FEDERAL LOAN SERVICING ( Account # XXXX ) This account is currently reporting XXXX delinquencies on my consumer report. FEDERAL LOAN SERVICING reported that this account was 60 days past due in XXXX 2014 and 90 days past due in XXXX 2014. This is a total of XXXX delinquencies reported in Loan # XXXX, XXXX, XXXX, XXXX, XXXX, XXXX, XXXX, XXXX, XXXX, XXXX, XXXX, XXXX, XXXX, XXXX, XXXX, XXXX, XXXX, XXXX, XXXX, XXXX, XXXX, XXXX, XXXX. 
This account has received on time monthly payments and timely forbearance request. This account should not reflect delinquencies and should be updated to reflect never late. Also, during XXXX XXXX 2014 through XXXX XXXX 2014 this account was in an approved temporary hardship status which there were not any payments due on this account during those time frames referenced."
1793,"I have been making double payments for both federal and private loans to Navient ( total payment for each time is around {$4400.00} for 1 federal and 4 privates ). Navient had made so many mistakes by applying to all amount to one or two accounts and left the other ones delinquent and then they charged me late fees countless times for all of their own mistakes. Last December, they charged me extra payment of {$2300.00} without my authorization ( so my total payment went up to {$6700.00} ). I could n't afford to pay off the credit card for that amount. I called Navient and I also filed with my credit card company for unauthorized charge. My credit card ( XXXX ) told me they could n't refund it since it was n't stolen. I called Navient again and again. Instead of refunding the only extra payment, they refunded the extra payment twice and put my account in delinquency. I realized Navient mistake after the XXXX advised me that some changes in my credit score. My score went from XXXX in XXXX to XXXX in XXXX. I called Navient and correct their mistake by making the payment of {$2300.00}. They told me that they would fix my credit score. It never happened. I called them back on XXXX/XXXX/17. I was told that I had to write the letter explaining what happened and requesting Navient to fix it. How can this be possible when I have to do all of that when they are the one who created all of this dilemma. This was not the first time it happened and it was not the first time they asked me to write letter or correct their own mistakes. It comes to the point I think it is the way they deceive the borrowers so we can not relieve our co-signers. When I tried to apply to have my co-signers to be released of their financial responsibilities, Navient told me that I was n't qualified because I was late in my payments before. I asked them to look at the records and listen to all the calls I had been talking with their customer service. Of course their answer was the records showed that I did n't make the payment on time even though they were the one who made mistakes. I got so tired and gave up. Until today when I saw the lawsuit that CFPB filed against Navient, I know my prayer was answered. Finally, the justice is served. All the allegations on the lawsuit are very true. I 'm sure that I 'm not the only one victim here since all of my classmates and friends who are Navient borrowers said the same complaints. We are working hard to pay back our student loans ( no complaint, only appreciation for helping me with my career ) and we are struggling to fight with Navient deceit. I hope this lawsuit will bring relief to many borrowers from credit being savaged, ridiculous phone harassment, deceived late fees, and many more. Please put an end to that. Thanks."
1449,My Nevient loan is paid in full. My studentloan.gov balance and the Dept of dept of edu says I 've paid off my loans years ago and all of a sudden they are pulling money from my pay checks. I have an  XXXX  son. I 'm a single mom. Low income. I have letters from the department of education congratulationing me on paying off my loans. I have a check for over payment on my student loans. Etc. this is outrageous!!
4727,"In 1999, at XXXX years old, I enrolled in a XXXX XXXX XXXX program at XXXX XXXX XXXX University with an income of {$0.00}. To pay for college my parents and I applied for student loans and received the full amount of student aid available to us at the time. This was not enough to cover the funds therefore we also took out "" Signature '' loans from XXXX XXXX, which have been sold to different groups over the years and are now serviced by Navient. I have XXXX separate loans with interest rates of ( 8.5 % - XXXX loans, 3.5 % - XXXX loans, 4.75 % - XXXX loan ) and owe a total of {$31000.00}. My total monthly payment is about {$400.00} and I want to negotiate with Navient to lower the interest rate of my 8.5 % loans. Do you have any suggestions for me? I consistently pay my loans, although due to financial hardships I have made late/delinquent payments. I have NOT defaulted on any of my loans and I do n't want to get to that position. I am also interested in consolidation and any income-based repayment plans. Additionally, I work in public service ( XXXX XXXX ) and am interested in any public service loan forgiveness programs."
409,"I have a student loan with the company ACS based in XXXX, NY. I have been unfairly charged interest amounts due to lack of attention to my account. I have also been denied the ability to pay in a timely matter. I have served in XXXX XXXX and I have been given money to pay my interest payments while in service. ACS has not accepted the payment action requested by XXXX XXXX to issue the interest payment. My first request was in XXXX 2016 and I have been dealing with customer service reps that have told me that they have not received any request. I resubmitted my interest payment request XXXX XXXX, 2016 with a rep on the phone and was told to wait 2 weeks. Today is XXXX XXXX, 2016 and there was still no action taken on my account. I was once again met with "" We have no request on file ''. I asked to be connected to a supervisor, I was connected to XXXX XXXX. She was able to find the request and told me that it was being audited. When I asked the following questions I received the answer "" I Do n't Know '' each time. Question 1- Why have your reps not been informed of this audit? Question 2- When will the audit be completed? Question 3- Will it be completed while I am still able to use my XXXX XXXX XXXX? I then requested to speak to her supervisor and was connected to XXXX XXXX. Her response was I ca n't tell you any more than XXXX."
4293,I have a consolidation loan with PHEAA who conducts its student loan servicing operations for federally-owned loans as FedLoan Servicing. I am a federal employee and have been paying my student loans under the XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX program for almost 10 years now. PHEAA does n't show on my loan status most of my payments toward XXXX. I should have more credited payments than they are showing.
6791,"My daughter has XXXX student loans from Wells Fargo Education Financial Services in the amount of {$63000.00}. from her XXXX education. She spent three years getting her XXXX XXXX XXXX degree from XXXX University on full scholarship and graduated in XXXX XXXX. She is working and ready to start repaying the loans, however the payments are too high for the salary she makes. We have always planned to pay off the loans when she graduated with the equity in our real estate, which is currently on the market. I have requested Wells Fargo reduce the interest and extend the terms of the loan to a payment that she can effort until our real estate is sold. Wells Fargo reduced the interest less than 1 % and will not extend the terms that would reduce the payment. The first payment is due on XXXX XXXX, XXXX and if Wells Fargo will not extend the terms until the sale of our home is complete, she will not be able to make the first payment close to {$600.00}. Based on the salary she makes, the numbers just do n't work. I will attach the details in an attached letter sent to Wells Fargo Executive Customer Service Committee, but would appreciate any help the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau can provide my family. Thanks in advance for your consideration in this matter and I look forward to hearing from you soon. I really need your help!"
8495,"I have already filed a complaint against younomics with CFPB where I have stated that I am disputing the loan amount and the interest charged. Complaint Number : XXXX. However, younomics ' agent/affiliate University Accounting Services went ahead and reported to the credit bureaus that I was behind payments. As a result my credit scores have fallen drastically adversely affecting my ability transfer credit card balances to 0 % APR cards and my ability to obtain new loans or advances. I spoke to someone from University Accounting Services yesterday, XXXX XXXX, 2016, to withdraw the reporting, to no avail. Instead they on their own, and without me requesting, have granted forebearance on my account from XXXX/XXXX/2016 to XXXX/XXXX/2016, but claiming that "" during Forbearance, interest accrues and is capitalized at the end of the Forbearance period. '' Since I am disputing the debt itself and am complaining about the lack of response from younomics, younomics or its affiliate University Accounting Service should not adversely report to the credit bureaus and should withdraw the adverse reporting done so far."
3744,"I have been going thru a divorce case for the past 3 years and last year I had to start paying spousal support of XXXX per month. I stopped going to school and had one year of my XXXX left, but with all the XXXX and XXXX ca caused by the divorce I was not able to go forward. the fed loan serviceing office has been on my case since then and demands that I start making a payment, I exp explained to them that right now I cant make any payments, or if they can refer me to a place where I can work as a XXXX ( to qualify to have my loan forgiven ) I might still go back to school once every thing in my personal live settles down. 
I also owe money to the irs, since my spouse refused to file taxes with me jointly. I keep being bothered by the fed loan servicing department and they are not not trying to consider my situation. please help me. thanks. XXXX."
9777,"i am getting calls at work, cell, home, and they are also calling my wife, brother, mom, dad multiple times a day."
3514,"In XX/XX/2007 I put my student loan in deferance while going through a divorce that ended in foreclosure of my home. During that time, XXXX sold loan to ACS. At the time I owed {$1500.00} ish. With penalties and interest, my loan when to {$5400.00}. I 've been paying consistently the {$57.00} per month but I feel that the penalties and interest which almost tripled is accessive. When asked if the could reduce for a full amount pay off they said no and that I would have to reach out to the Department of Education for options. Do I have any?"
9085,This debt has been paid in full since XXXX 2012. There is a zero balance for this paid collection. Please remove it from my credit report.
5633,I had a student loan with National Collegiate Student fro XXXX. I was unemployed and unable to pay them. I tried to get the loan deffered but the company gave me the run around to who was managing the loan. Two different agencies filed adjustment against me in court for two different cost.
3382,"I was approved through a program called XXXX program that grant or dissolve student loan debt if you are XXXX. I was approved on XX/XX/2014. So, they sent a XXXX to file for the debt but I also file bankruptcy in the same month. Now since I disputed my concerns with Department of Education/Nelnet they are putting negative information on my credit report because I have received several credit alerts were they are saying I am 120 days late. They should been paid through the XXXX program but now they are sending negative remarks to my credit report. I would like to have this investigated and if they are wrong I would like to have all Nelnet accounts deleted from my credit report immediately. I received a total of XXXX credit alerts in 4 days about this company. They are trying to hurt my credit score."
6972,"I received my XXXX degree XX/XX/2016. I am employed as of XX/XX/2016 I am so willing to pay back my private sallie Mae loan monthly via direct deposit but the term of the loan is unbearable to my income ; it is for 8 years at about {$1000.00} per month. ; my total annual salary is {$40000.00} sallie Mae will not extend my loan nor help me. 
I am a single XXXX year old female who will turn XXXX XX/XX/XXXX and I need to pay rent, pay medical, car insurance as well as dental insurance plus gas for my car and utilities. Please tell sallie Mae to lower my monthly payment and extend my loan Thank u"
2825,They set up a profile with my incorrect name and email and are refusing to fix the problem so I can get help with repayment options. I 've tried to get my payments reduced due to hardships and they never sent out correspondence paperwork I was needing.
2978,"I noticed that the CFPB filed suit yesterday against Navient. My loans are serviced through that entity, and the CFPB description of Navient 's actions I read in y'all 's brief sounded strikingly familiar. For two years, prior to my return to XXXX school, Navient would repeatedly call me and essentially make it appear that I had no other choice but to choose forbearance. That said, I had never heard of income based repayment plans until recently, and my income was anything but at that time. In addition to being coaxed into forebearance for about 18 months, Navient was slow to recognize my right to deferment once I returned to school, and I have no evidence that they rescinded their reporting to various credit agencies as they promised to do for their error during this window of time."
2320,Put in a deferment and they say never got it. Have done it three times now and still say nothing but you owe and need to pay. Also was XXXX that 's why I could not Finnish out the semester. But still got charged for the whole thing. No one will help
2538,"I have been making payments for my parent plus loan via Navient and utilizing my electronic bank payments to do so. It seems that my payments have been received, but distributed to payments upon my brother 's loan and my loan resulting in multiple late fees and issues with both loans. Upon calling Navient customer service to discuss this issue, I was informed that they would not speak to me about my loan because the loan was a parent plus loan and that they would then have to speak to my father. I explained that my name is too on the loan, as it was a loan taken out in my name for me to go to school with no such success to dispute this issue."
4806,"I borrowed from then XXXX, now Navient, a total of about {$8000.00} in XXXX separate loans. This is on top of my federal loans that I currently had to put in to forbearance. The loans were all to cover on-campus housing expenses, transportation costs, and supplies for school. At the time, I had no other options and was forced to have my father co-sign on all XXXX loans. I do not feel I was properly prepared to take these loans out and did not anticipate how aggressive the repayment terms would be. I am now almost XXXX payments behind and have done voluntarily forbearance twice, with a significant fee, to prevent default. Navient frequently harasses both me and my father XXXX the co-signer XXXX numerous times during the day and even late at night. I currently work as a paramedic and my father as an elementary school principal. I have attempted to express what I can afford per month, which is less than what Navient wants. I have given them a complete financial review of all my expenses and they still claim that I have enough to afford my monthly payments. I have been berated and made to feel bad about borrowing the money, even times when the representative will say "" It 's only {$8000.00}, why ca n't you pay this back? "". My credit has suffered due to my accounts with Navient. I am unable to refinance and can not seem to qualify for any consolidation programs. I feel like I am running out of options and Navient continues to bully both me and my co-signer. 

I obtained these loans while attending the University XXXX XXXX Florida between XX/XX/XXXX and XX/XX/XXXX. 

Thank you."
7351,My loan was sold to a private collections company called Transworld. They called and threatened my husband with garnishment of his wages if it was not paid. The loan was made before we were married and therefore it is illegal for them to have done so. When they called him back they denied ever having done so though the call was recorded.
3511,"I have been trying to get an income based repayment plan with Navient for months because I am at my annual renewal point. Every year I go through the same fiasco, it takes months and then they finally tell me I owe nothing for 1 year. Some years they tell me I need to send my husband 's income information becausr we file joint income taxes and other years they tell me they do n't need it because he did n't co-sign my loans nor does he have any student loans."
3164,"I always pay at least {$100.00} more than my interest payment monthly and for the past year my balance has stayed the same. I think I 'm getting ripped off, please help!"
1708,"My federal student loans are aprox XXXX. I need to start repaying these loans. I currently pay {$500.00} a month in private loans, so my discretionary income is next to nothing. I have contacted resources for help arranging payments and they do not take into consideration my overall debt and I was told that it would cost me {$600.00} for these agencies to help me get a pmt of {$170.00} a month, which is still more than I can afford. I am an XXXX and if I default I could lose my job. Time is running out and I am desperate. Basically I was told that if I had children and was single and was not working full time and receiving aid from the government they would be able to make my payments next to nothing. I am being punished for trying to be a responsible productive member of society."
7091,"On a daily basis, I 'm harassed by Navient debt collectors. They 've called my house anywhere from XXXX XXXX repeatedly. They 've called my mother 's job repeatedly and has harassed her co-workers on her whereabouts giving them information that does n't concern them. I understand I 'm unable to pay the amount they 've requested at the moment due to financial hardships but we have offered to pay half of what they have requested until my financial situation changes. There rude, disrespectful, and have asked me to put myself in more debt just to pay there loan. It 's just ridiculous now. They continue to harass my mother with wage garnishments, and property liens. We 've spoke with someone continuously about the same thing and there 's no resolution just the same outcome."
3605,I received a letter from XXXX on XX/XX/2010.This letter said my loans had been paid in full. Along with this letter it explained the national credit bureaus was going to be updated and removed from default status. I soon found out this was untrue. I was contacted by a company called Navient. I was wondering why i was repaying for a loan that had been paid in full. Navient explained they had took over for XXXX. I provided the same letter that was sent to me from XXXX. Navient never removed and they are destroying my credit and it has impacted my credit score.
6595,"Navient is my Federal Consolidated Student Loan servicing agent. My loan was transfered to them by XXXX. I can not get a complete account history from them, they increased my monthly payment, yet I am receiving {$10.00} less off my principle every other month ... I work as a XXXX at a XXXX and I am located off campus at the XXXX. I have been paying for approx. 10 years. I have paid nearly {$48000.00}, yet have only received approx. {$9000.00} toward my principle on a {$79000.00} debt. Something is wrong ... and I can not get them to fix it. My original loan servicing agent was XXXX XXXX ( and we all know what they have done. ) They transfered the loan to XXXX ( once again not the top performer ) And, it ended up with Navient ... Even the Department of Education can not tell me or provide me with a complete account history ... showing my initial interest rate at 2 % nor what my current interest is at. 
Thank you for helping ... I really appreciate your efforts in taking on this large of a challenge! 
XXXX XXXX"
7660,"When I first took out my loan in 2010 it was originally with XXXX, who later became Navient. The interest on the loan was very high and I was steered into making forbearance payments, which did not help because the interest was capitalized over time. After only being to make minimum ( interest only ) payments at first, I quickly realized that it would take many, many years to ever pay it off. 

My complaint is about the forbearance, and the extremely high interest rate and capitalization of the interest. ( There was one year when I paid over {$6000.00} in interest alone. ) Recently I have paid off both my loans with Navient but it did not come without a cost or major sacrifice, and that is what my complaint is about. Please let me know if there is a class action suit against Navient as I believe I would very much participate and have the records to show their wrong doing. 

Thank you!"
1689,"Due to permanent XXXX, my fully guaranteed student loan was paid in full and discharged. I am on XXXX. Yet, credit scores from XXXX agencies have not changed. XXXX was my loan provider until they changed it to Navient a couple of years ago. As the loan was fully guaranteed and paid in full, my credit score should have improved substantially. So the problem is with the credit reporting agencies and the way Navient reported the payoff."
684,"My loan was in deferment while in graduate school. When I spoke with a Navient representative they told me my new amount with an IDR payment plan when I reapplied would be about {$400.00}. I received an email saying my new amount due is {$560.00}. I received no paperwork/documents on what payment plan I was on and how this amount was calculated. I still have not received any of this information.   On  XXXX   XXXX  at  XXXX    XXXX   MST, I called Navient and spoke with a customer service representative and I asked her which payment plan I had been placed on and why my payment was so high . ( This is more than my Mortgage ) Sh e told me to hold. She came back and said that she did not know how the amount was calculated and that when she ran the numbers the amount should be {$300.00}. She said she would put in a request to have the amount recalculated. I still have no information about the payment plan I have been placed on and they could not provide information to me this."
8445,"The issue I am having with Navient, is that on several occasions they have continually not processed information correctly, most recently my forbearance that was to be from XXXX XXXX through XXXX XXXX. I have called them several times to get the forbearance processed correctly and keep getting the run around. Currently it says I am past due with them, but I should not have a payment due until XX/XX/XXXX. I contacted them XXXX/XXXX/XXXX and was granted the 3 month forbearance. Subsequent contact was by email XXXX/XXXX/XXXX with no response, and phone calls on XXXX/XXXX/XXXX, XXXX/XXXX/XXXX and XX/XX/XXXX. Every time I spoke to a representative they blamed the previous for not doing their job correctly and swear they fixed it with end result still being that the account is not accurate."
39,"I went on Navient site to pay my XX/XX/XXXX payment which had been around $ XXXX month for XXXX. It showed it now at over {$300.00}. I called them and spoke to a customer service agent and they had me fax over a current pay stub with their form. They had set up my payment for the next year thru XX/XX/XXXX to be at {$29.00} month reduced as I said I could not pay that high amount. I told them I would pay more each month if I could on the {$29.00} and on XX/XX/XXXX made a payment of over {$50.00}. I made another payment on their site on XX/XX/XXXX for over {$50.00} also. I went on their site XX/XX/XXXX to pay and it now stated my payment was going to be {$180.00}. I called and the customer service agaent said the person screwed up in XXXX and that they reviewed my account XX/XX/XXXX and that my payment is going to be {$180.00} for 10 months and then will jump to over {$500.00} a month! 
Something going on with Navient!"
5860,i was told my only option was to go into forbearance from XXXX.
4923,"Dear XXXX XXXX, I was wondering if you could help me with a situation I am having with American Education Services ( AES ), and XXXX. They service private student loans. I was wondering about some of their practices. 

They withhold essential contract information such as, -Minimum payment information-Available programs for payments during difficult times-Direct contact information for my actual lenderWhen I have called and asked what my new minimum payment would be, they ask what I can afford, when I tell them they say it is too low. I had a XXXX minute conversation with the representative, where I had to go up in increments of {$5.00} until I hit their minimum amount. She said it was against company policy to just tell me the amount. It was humiliating to reveal what I could pay, and know they knew the right answer the entire time, and did n't tell me. 

What I am wondering is, is n't it illegal to withhold essential information in a contract from the other party? I do n't remember signing a contract for student loans that said, "" I agree to your terms and conditions, including the ones you wo n't tell me about ''. Do n't they have to disclose all information regarding my student loan payments in detail. 

Another example of withholding information is information regarding available reduced payment options. I have called representatives at AES and asked, "" If I am late on my payment what are my options? '' They have answered, "" We can only tell you that there are options available to you, but not until after you are late. "" Then, they do n't give me any details. I want to be able to plan. If the payment options for being XXXX days late are all different, should n't they be required to tell me that information, so I can establish a financial plan based on what 's coming? If they do n't give me this information, and I just sit there and wait, that impacts my credit. They are essentially forcing me into a worse situation, by making me wait until I am late, to find out what the new payment would be. I am taking a risk, because I do n't know how low the new payments are, but I do know that my credit score will be damaged. 

When I ask them for direct contact information to my lender, they say they ca n't give it to me. Do n't have the right to know who is actually lending me money? Please excuse the extreme example, but I would like to know if my loans have been bought by a XXXX, or XXXX. I use that example to illustrate that I think I should at least know where the money is coming from. 

If any of this is illegal, is there something that can be done about it? If so, does this mean they are in violation of the contract by not telling me the complete details? Please let me know if you need any further information from me. Thank you in advance for your time and help, I really appreciate your efforts to protect consumers. I look forward to hearing from you. 
Sincerely, XXXX XXXX"
2954,My balance never seemed to go down only up. Too much interest. I do n't make enough to make a payment and support my family. Too many calls harassing about missing payments but never got a a call when I made a payment. The loans are more of a burden on me than anything that 's happened in my life. My education seems like a joke to have to be repaying all this money that in the end keeps on adding up and not decreasing. I have never been able to get a good repayment plan or help on getting smaller payments. The interest is the only thing that I feel that I am paying and not the actual loan.
3827,"I filed my Employment Certification form for the Public Service Student Loan Forgiveness program, checking the box that states I am unable to obtain signatures from my previous employers. I faxed my materials with a letter explaining that I work for a foundation in a role that manages grants made directly to my former employer, creating an unethical conflict of interest if I were to request my former boss to sign a document that impacts my personal finances. This could create a power dynamic or be seen as an emolument because I make funding decisions regarding their organization, and this request could be seen as a favor that could weaken the professional integrity of my role. I expected to supply pay stubs to confirm my employment with this agency, but two separate communications with the agency say I am unable to do this, which seems wrong. 

Secondly, I was a XXXX member, working full-time as a salaried XXXX but not making monthly payments toward my federal loans because I was in XXXX and on deferment due to XXXX service. The XXXX awards I earned through this program are eligible to be considered qualifying payments toward the XXXX needed to meet criteria for loan forgiveness. But since I was an employee of the school, not of XXXX, I was told over the phone that I could not claim these awards as qualifying payments, which also seems incorrect. My phone connection was disconnected, no attempt was made to reach me, despite them requesting my contact information at the beginning of the call. I submitted an electronic request for assistance as well, and it has been XXXX days with no response. 
Thirdly, it seems very unfair that no matter how much my total XXXX awards amount to ( I received XXXX full awards ), I am only eligible to qualify for a maximum of 12 months of qualifying monthly payments, even if the awards would amount to more than 12 months of payments. This, coupled with the fact that I am unable to apply for loan forgiveness until after the 120th qualifying payment, and must remain employed at a nonprofit or qualifying employer until the forgiveness is actually processed, and there is no stated timeline for how long that may take on the documentation I 've reviewed, appears designed to minimize the value of this program that has been touted to me as a benefit and has been the basis of my debt reduction strategy for years ( I am paying lower-interest private loans first because they will not be forgiven ). 
Finally, I am recently married, and therefore my Income Driven Repayment Plan payments are now at their max, the same as a 10 year repayment plan would be because we are a dual-income household. But this does n't account for the private student loans I am also paying. Altogether, these amount to 20 % of my gross pay. And the student loan interest deduction credit I claim is XXXX per household, not individual, so my wife and I effectively forego {$2500.00} of tax deductions by nature of us being married rather than single."
8864,I have many loans from private and government and I was very young when I started with this school loans. after a few years companies sell my loans to different lenders and the interest goes high. I never had a complete understanding of the type of interest I would pay down the road. To make things worst I started a degree on a university and left school for few years and when I came back to finished the degree was no longer available so had to get a XXXX degree unless I wanted to pay more towards a new degree. I do not have a steady career and i am currently jobless with a XXXX XXXX dollar debt.
6545,"I made a settlement agreement with XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX law firm that is managing my two charged off accounts XXXX and sent two cashier 's checks for {$2500.00} each. I was informed by a couple of XXXX XXXX XXXX representatives my checks were received. I called XXXX XXXX XXXX today to ask if they were able to expedite their process when it comes to contacting the original creditor ( Navient ) to confirm payment has been received. One of the representatives confirmed XXXX XXXX XXXX had already submitted that information to Navient as they upload information daily to this company. I contacted XXXX XXXX, consumer advocate for Navient, and he was able to submit my request to expedite the process on XXXX XXXX to report to the three credit bureaus. I was told my XXXX, XXXX XXXX XXXX has a 30 day policy. My payment has to be cleared in their office for 30 days in order for them to assure the funds are received and cleared. I asked XXXX XXXX XXXX today and one of their representatives told me this applies to clients that have judgements against them. The representative then stated I would n't have to wait the 30 days since they upload information to Navient daily and Navient is aware my funds are received and cleared. I then contacted XXXX XXXX by email letting him know of my findings. He then replied back "" Dear XXXX XXXX, Unfortunately, we are unable to expedite the process any further. '' I asked "" why not '' and have not received any replies yet. I am exhausted with this process! I have done everything XXXX XXXX XXXX and Navient have asked! I do n't understand why they were harassing me so much about these accounts and now that I 've settled, they do not want to deliver their part of the deal! This is not my first complaint with them!"
8719,"The loan was opened in XXXX XXXX and defaulted in XXXX XXXX. It was charged off and picked up by a collection agency. XXXX/XXXX/XXXX, I reached an agreement with the collection agency and settled the debt in full. AES was servicing the loan and has failed to update the status of the loan or the balance. I have a written letter from AES stating that the principal balance is now XXXX but XXXX continues to report the loan with a status of "" In Collections '' with a current balance of XXXX, and unpaid balance of XXXX and a highest balance of XXXX. I need the loan status to reflect that it was a charge off and the correct balance."
9007,XXXX college took out a private loan in my name and then when they closed i found out that they had taken over {$20000.00} in federal loans plus $ XXXX+ in Pell Grants and XXXX Separate private loans for XXXX $ XXXX+ and XXXX XXXX XXXX for $ XXXX+. My tuition was only {$29000.00}. So this does not add up. The private loan company for XXXX has no idea what to do as far as discharging my loan. I need help!
7693,"I was attending XXXX XXXX, XXXX ( formerly owned by XXXX ) from XXXX XXXX until they unexpectedly shut down in XXXX XXXX. I was 3 months away from graduation when XXXX shut down and I was not allowed to finish my program but was left with HUGE debt and a damaged credit score. I got NOTHING in return and I am now bombarded with phone calls regarding my debt EVERY SINGLE DAY! Referring to an article posted on Consumer Finance 's website on XXXX XXXX, XXXX I was "" harmed by XXXX predatory lending scheme '' and lured into taking out private loans with very high interest rates. They advertised bogus job prospects and career services on television, online, and brochures. Students were forced to buy expensive overpriced books that were either never used in class or opened XXXX times all quarter. According to the bulletin XXXX ( owner of some of XXXX schools ) agreed to remove negative information from student borrowers ' credit reports ; however, I am to this day still seeing negative credit report history and my credit has dropped by almost XXXX points.These "" XXXX '' were owned/ran by the school and when it had to close were then consequently sold to University XXXX XXXX ( XXXX ). I worked hard to get my credit score to where it was, I had XXXX late payments and now I have a credit score below XXXX and XXXX late payments thanks to XXXX. I receive countless letters in the mail ( almost one a day ) and more then XXXX phone call from XXXX regarding my loans a day, every single day. Many promises were made by the school, its ' employees, and its ' ownership and not XXXX was met. The financial opportunity to make money from students in need of a better life was seen by XXXX and they lied and failed to do what they should have done. If I take out a loan and I leave, I still have to pay that loan back. But if I take out a loan and the SCHOOL leaves, I should NOT have to pay anything to an institution that cost the jobs of many people, hurt people financially, lied, cheated and wasted the time of the students in the schools that were owned by XXXX."
2056,"I 've consolidated my student loan debt ( approx. {$200000.00} at this point ) under the Public Service Loan Forgiveness program, and have been making monthly payments for the last 6 years. I work for a nonprofit XXXX in New York ( high cost of living coupled with non-profit salary ). I should have been eligible for forgiveness in 2020. However, I just learned XXXX of my payments over the last 6 years have been disqualified because the "" full monthly installment amount was not received ''. Here is how this happens : Let 's say my monthly loan payment is {$340.00}. One month I round up and pay {$350.00} ( overpaying by {$6.00} ). The following month I get a statement saying the amount owed is {$330.00} ( which is slighly less, due to the over-payment the month before ). I pay the exact amount owed, according to my statement. That payment of {$330.00} is disqualified because it is not the full loan payment amount. This happened to me 10 times in six years -- which means I will have to stay in repayment almost an extra year before I 'm eligible for forgiveness. Costing me thousands of extra dollars in repayment. 

When I called FedLoan Servicing to ask about this, I was told that it was n't their problem I "" did n't read the fine print, '' and that the annual enrollment forms I sign to stay in the income-driven repayment program explicitly state that I must make the full payment each month in order to qualify. I get that. But then why am I receiving a statement telling me to pay anything other than my full payment each month? This is misleading, at best, but feels malicious. And I 'm sure there are thousands of people out there paying their loans on time every month, paying whatever is listed on their monthly statement, not realizing they are falling through a loophole in the system. Frankly, I 'm surprised there has n't been a class action lawsuit yet."
4929,"I have been paying on my navient student loan since 2010 and through the years I have noticed they have quite deceptive practices. Despite every payment being made on time and a lot of extra payments, the interest rate continues to go up. They do not allow a payer to set up recurring payments that are over the due amount so I have had to go in monthly and submit an additional payment in addition to the recurring payment ( of the minimum due ). Upon making extra payments in order to pay the loan off quicker, navient in return reduces the amount they take from my account the following month as if they are purposefully attempting to lengthen the time the loan is paid back and thus getting additional interest. The interest rate has also increased steadily over time. This is very unfair practices to borrowers and they are clearly attempting every effirt to maximize their interest income and to keep borrowers stuck in a student loan as long as possible. Despite 100 % payments made on time, being paid $ XXXX of dollars a head of schedule, and a credit score greater than XXXX, my interest rate is now nearly 10 %, which I find very unacceptable for a student loan. These practices really need to be looked into."
2620,"I HAD A STUDENT LOAN FROM AN XXXX SCHOOL MORE THAN 28 YRS AGO. AT THE TIME, I REALLY DID N'T KNOW WHAT I WAS SIGNING BECAUSE I WAS LIKE XXXX OR XXXX AND HAD JUST HAD A BABY SO I STARTED THIS XXXX SCHOOL. WELL I ENDED UP XXXX AGAIN A FEW MONTHS AFTER AND EVENTUALLY NEVER GOT THE CHANCE TO FINISH THE SCHOOLING. YEARS LATER, THIS ENDED UP ON MY CREDIT AND WAS A MAJOR PART IN DESTROYING MY CREDIT. SO I FINALLY, NOT WANTING TO AT ALL, ENDED UP FILING FOR BANKRUPTCY, THINKING THAT IT WOULD EVENTUALLY GET RID OF THE DEBT ALONG WITH THE OTHERS. WELL AFTER COMPLETING AND GETTING DISCHARGED FROM BANKRUPTCY, THE LETTERS AND THE NUMEROUS AMOUNTS OF PHONE CALLS STARTED COMING AGAIN FROM THIS AGENCY CALLED NAVIENTS. INITIALLY, I WAS TELLING THEM THAT I HAD NO IDEA OF THIS DEBT BECAUSE I 'D NEVER HAD A LOAN WITH A COMPANY CALLED NAVIENT. WELL, THEY KEPT CALLING AND CALLING THREATENING ME ABOUT THIS DEBT. A COUPLE OF YEARS LATER, A COMPANY CALLED XXXX STARTED CALLING AND HARRASSING ME ABOUT THIS SAME DEBT, EXCEPT THAT NOW IT WAS MORE THAN 4 TIMES THE AMOUNT OF THE ORIGINAL LOAN WHICH WAS ONLY ABOUT {$2200.00}. WELL, THAT COMPANY INTERCEPTED MY TAXES AND IT CREATED A DEFINITE HARDSHIP FOR ME AND MY FAMILY AS I HAD JUST LOST MY OLDEST CHILD AND ONLY SON TO XXXX. I HAD TO BORROW MONEY FROM FRIENDS AND FAMILY JUST FOR HIS BURIAL. I WAS OUT OF WORK FOR WEEKS BECAUSE I COULD NOT FUNCTION. GOT BEHIND ON SEVERAL BILLS AND MAINLY MY RENT SO I WAS EVICTED BUT A FRIEND HAD A PROPERTY NO ONE WAS LIVING IN, SO HE LET US STAY THERE. I HAVE XXXX OTHER DAUGHTERS, MY SICK ELDERLY MOTHER AND MY GRAND DAUGHTER, WHO IS MY SONS OLDEST CHILD. HE HAS XXXX. AFTER THAT, I SET UP PAYMENT ARRANGEMENTS WITH XXXX AND COMPLETED THE REHAB PROGRAM THROUGH THEM. I DID NOT KNOW THAT THIS {$2200.00} LOAN HAD BEEN SOLD TO XXXX COLLECTIONS AGENCIES. THEREFORE, THE AMOUNT OF THE LOAN HAS QUADRUPLED TO MORE THAN {$8000.00}. AFTER THE LOAN CAME OUT OF DEFAULT, DUE TO THE REHAB PROGRAM, IT IS NOW BACK IN NAVIENTS HANDS AND THE PAYMENT PROGRAM THAT THEY ESTABLISHED IS WELL MORE THAN I CAN POSSIBLY AFFORD AND WOULD CREATE AND UNNECESSARY HARDSHIP ON ME AND MY FAMILY ONCE AGAIN. TO TRY TO EVEN PAY IT OFF WOULD BE MUCH WORSE BECAUSE NOW AFTER ALL THE OUTRAGEOUS FEES AND CHARGES, THEY ARE SAYING I WOULD END UP PAYING OVER {$12000.00} FOR A {$2000.00} LOAN. I WROTE THEM AND ASKED IF WE COULD COME TO A PAY OFF AGREEMENT FOR A PERCENTAGE OF THE ORIGINAL AMOUNT OF THE LOAN AND THEY DECLINED MY OFFER, WHICH IS WHY I AM WRITING TO YOU. I GET XXXX AS A VETERAN AND I 'M BARELY MAKING ENDS MEET WITH MY FAMILY AS IS. AS I STATED, THIS LOAN IS ALMOST 30 YEARS OLD AND TRYING TO PAY THIS OFF WOULD BE NEARLY IMPOSSIBLE. AND THEY ARE DESTROYING MY CREDIT IN THE PROCESS, EVEN AFTER BANKRUPTCY. CAN YOU ALL PLEASE HELP?"
9750,"Financial Asset Management Systems called me on XXXX XXXX, 2015, after I had already sent a written cease communication to them under complaint number XXXX. FAMS agreed in writing under complaint number XXXX on XXXX XXXX, 2015 to not contact me anymore. I called FAMS on XXXX XXXX, 2015 and recorded the phone call to get a statement balance and payments made on the account. During the phone call on XXXX XXXX, 2015, which I recorded I again expressed to FAMS that they were not to call me because it 's my work phone however, they proceeded to call me on XXXX XXXX, 2015, which is a flagrant violation of the Fair Debt Collections Practices Act. FAMS had previously agreed in writing on XXXX XXXX, 2015, not to call me again or contact me again however they proceeded to call me on XXXX XXXX, 2015. It is debt collector harassment to continue to call even after receiving a written cease communications letter. FAMS should not be attempting to call me nor write to me because they agreed in writing on XXXX XXXX, 2015 in a separate CFPB complaint ( XXXX ) not to contact me again however, they proceeded to call me on XXXX XXXX, 2015, which is a flagrant violation of the Fair Debt Collections Practices Act. I am suffering from severe emotional distress as a result of Financial Asset Management Systems debt collection harassment."
7017,"I 'm a co-signer on my son 's student loan through Navient/XXXX. I 've been paying for years on the loan and the balance does n't seem to move. Also, when I talk to representatives, they seem confused and give me conflicting answers to my questions. Recently they just raised my interest rate to almost 10 % without notice. When I called for them to explain the reason for raising the interest rate, there answer was because of government regulations. It says on there website that interest rates can only be raised because of your credit score. My credit score is excellent and I do n't understand their reasoning. I am disgusted dealing with Navient and never seam to get an honest answer. When I asked if there is someone I can talk to in person, there reply was there is n't anyone in the company that I can talk to or physically go to."
8422,"American Education Services is scamming XXXX of Americans out of their hard earned money. First let me say that none of my student loans were ever explained to me by my financial aid offices at the University XXXX at XXXX, University XXXX at XXXX, University XXXX XXXX or XXXX XXXX University. I was told that these were the only means of financing my education and that everyone had loans because the loan repayments were so easy and the cost to borrow the money was so cheap. Now I am riddled with student loan debt I do not understand. My federal loans seem to work just fine, I have set them up on automatic payments and I can see each month that the principal is reduced. My private loans, XXXX from AES specifically, are a much different story. AES has returned my payments on several occasions XXXX weeks after the payment was made and told me that my checking account does not exist just so that they can charge me a late fee, I resubmitted the same information about my account to them and the payments was processed without any issues but with the added late fee. My principal balance is XXXX times the amount that I borrowed XXXX years ago and they are applying 100 % of my payments to interest only despite that fact that I am not on an interest only repayment plan. I sent them a message through their email service in XXXX asking them why this was happening and I was told that I had made my last interest only payment that month ( extremely convenient ) and that my future payments would go towards my principal but alas even today my payments are being applied only to interest on my loans which never seems to go down. I took out approximately {$44000.00} from them around 8 years ago and today my balance is over {$65000.00} despite me paying over {$500.00} a month. In addition they purchased my loan from XXXX and despite paying nearly {$900.00} this year on that loan only {$110.00} has been applied to the principal. At this rate I will never pay off these loans, I will have a payment for the rest of my life. There is no light at the end of the tunnel with this company, they are not honest or they are incompetent but either way they need to be stopped. Knowing that I will never stop paying them as long as I live and knowing that because of the federal protection this bank receives on their private student loans I will not be able to rid myself of this bad debt in my lifetime, I am hopeless. I will spend the rest of my life handing over {$6000.00} a year ( that means I have to make {$12000.00} just to pay them off ) to an immoral company who is being protected by the same government who already takes a XXXX of every dollar I make. You have created this website to give people a voice and I suspect that this is all this website is intended to do by letting people write down their terrible experiences and feel like they have been heard. I am submitting this assuming that nothing will ever be done to this company and that should let you know how desperate I am."
7265,"My daughter has student loans through Sallie Mae, I am a co-signer, due to her pay schedule her payment may be a few days late. We receive robo calls about a week before payment is due, and then for about a week after. These calls come every hour. I have called and talked to their representative and they tell me there is nothing they can do to stop the calls even after the payment is made."
8021,"My payment was approximately XXXX days past due. Navient called me XXXX times on XXXX/XXXX/15 and another XXXX times on XXXX/XXXX/15, starting at XXXX XXXX. The collectors were rude and sarcastic, and I requested no further calls, but they kept calling. I also promised to pay in the next few days, and they still kept calling."
5539,"I sent a Letter to ECMC disputing the accuracy of negative reporting of Charge off on my credit report for student loans that were through XXXX XXXX, I had, had them deferred back in XXXX for 6 months and then in XXXX XXXX, they were paid off in full. Those letters were sent out XXXX Certified letter on XXXX XXXX, XXXX, signed for on XXXX XXXX, XXXX. After 30 days I never heard a response back from ECMC. I 've disputed inaccuracies with ECMC back in XXXX as well, sent a letter out on XXXX XXXX, XXXX they refuse to respond to my letters requesting "" that is competent evidence bearing my signature, showing that I have ( or ever had ) some contractual obligation to pay them this debt and therefore has broken the law by not reporting in a timely manner."
7471,"To whom it may concern ; I have been working with AES, the loan servicer. The loan lender is the National Collegiate Trust which is a private lender. I called the servicing company, AES to seek help with my student loans, the company was resistant to work with me regarding my student loan payments. Not only were they reluctant to work with me, I wastransferred six times and told that the department supervisor would call me. I then contacted consumer advocacy to try to get someone to work with me. 

I understand that I took this loan, however, I feel taken advantage of. Considering the loan was originally through XXXX bank, in which I trusted. The contract was complicated and sent to my parent who also may did not understand the details. I was their first child to go to college and it seemed like it was our only option. I feel taken advantage of, similarly to the housing crisis 10 years ago, or those who took XXXX XXXX student loans and were unable to pay them off due to interest being compounded. 

This loan seems to be predatory to the middle class and those who do not have the proper education to make the financial decisions. While we ( my father and I ) did sign this student loan agreement and the company works within the bounds of the law, I believe they are victimizing many middle class Americans who are unknowingly or uneducated students looking to get an education that will better their future. 

To outline the financial burden I have acquired, my original loan was for {$32000.00} in XXXX, Since I have taken out this loan I have paid over {$10000.00} in interest and paid {$10000.00} towards the principal, so a total of over XXXX dollars in payments. Despite these payments my outstanding principal balance as of today is {$36000.00} and my payoff amount for XXXX/XXXX/XXXX is {$39000.00}. I have never defaulted on a payment. I did have a period of forbearance while finishing my bachelors ' degree. 

Personally, this debt seems like XXXX that I can not get out of. I pay and my principal balance continues to increase. There was a period of time that I payed {$1000.00} per month to try to get ahead and yet, my principal is still higher than the original borrowed amount. 

I am concerned for middle class families in the future with this company and the principals they operate under. While I fully understand my responsibility to make payments, I am concerned that student loans are victimizing young, middle class people with good intentions. 

I have worked with AES consumer advocacy, and they have tried to contact the lender to try to negotiate a payout. The lender National Collegiate Trust refused to respond. I am also concerned that I am not able to contact the lender. I have to rely on the ability of intermediates to discuss anything. 

I wanted to file a formal complaint about this company for two reasons. One, to be able to have a conversation with them and negotiate a settlement. And two, to advocate for financial protection of the upcoming generations. Thank you for your time. 

XXXX XXXX"
8467,"daughter received loans from wells fargo, daughter does not reside in this house. i constantly receive calls daily from wells fargo, XXXX, north dakato when answered, their computer/person hangs up ..."
1333,i went to XXXX college of XXXX georgia for XXXX with hopes of a better life for me and my family XX/XX/XXXX-XX/XX/XXXX. I finished my course and completed my externship and i was told that they would help me find a job.Career services never helped me with job placement I recieved a letter in the mail XX/XX/XXXX that stated XXXX job placement rates were misleading and that i may be eligible for student loan forgiveness i then filled out the paper work and sent it to the department of education for them to determine. I called to check on my student loan forgiveness application and they told me that it could take up to 12 months to determine at this time i had my loans in deferment so i was not required to make payments but the customer service rep stated that i should put my loans in forbearance. I did as the rep said i should do and a couple days later i got a bill in the mail for {$1000.00} dollars from my lender fed loan servicing. I can not afford to pay that
20,"I am one of the many borrowers that has my loan serviced by Navient. When I tried to arrange for a more affordable payment, I was forced into forbearance ( multiple times ), this year I paid basically nothing in principal and about {$3000.00} in interest! I did not fully understand how much I had been taken advantage of until I got my XXXX!"
2299,"Hi, I suspect that my consolidated student loan with Navient is not being serviced correctly, which is causing me to pay more in interest. Specifically, the Navient website does not allow me to apply principle payments specifically to the unsubsidized portion of my loans. Also, I suspect that my payments on loans that are in deferment due to my graduate student status are being applied as refunds incorrectly. I do no know exactly how this is suppose to work, but I am noticing "" accrued interest '' charges even though I am paying principle and interest on time. I have tried to contact Navient via the customer service feature on the website, but have received no reply. 
Thank you for your work looking into this!"
9797,"This company calls 6-8 times a day to collect on a debt and when I call and complain that they are changing the terms and conditions of the loan agreement, I am being told the grace period they offered was just a courtesy."
1158,My loan is with Navient. I have been reenrolled multiple times into forbearance.
8217,"I was a struggling XXXX who wanted ro do the right things towards my loans. I uderstood that I took the loan and must now repay it. Nonetheless, XXXX XXXX, now Navient, has made that quite difficult to do by refusing to work with me in any way for a better repayment plan. I have tried everything from trying to change my payment date to trying to lowere the interest and they wo n't budge on anything stating that because I have a Private Loan, there is nothing that can be done."
266,"As of this date I have not received my XXXX from Nelnet, a student loan servicing company. My loans were discharged by Nelnet in XXXX XXXX. I have reached out twice by phone to Nelnet 's XXXX section on Monday the XXXX of XXXX XXXX and was told that "" Upper level management was researching if I would get a XXXX for discharge of federal loans. I asked when a decision would be made and was told it would take some time. I asked for a return call to keep me informed and was told not to expect one. On the second time I reached out to Nelnet 's XXXX section I was also told that "" Upper level management was researching if I would get a XXXX for discharge of loans and that Nelnet would access my credit from XXXX credit reporting agencies before any decision would be made. In light of the fact that Nelnet intends to "" hit '' my credit again, I have not attached the credit reports as they will be outdated by the time Nelnet has accessed them again. Nelnet has continuously reported inaccurate information to these agencies and there is no reason, other than retaliation for my initial CFPB complaint for the mismanagement in servicing of my federal student loans and mismanagement of the XXXX discharge process and for reporting their inaccurate information targeting my credit in a most detrimental manner to credit reporting agencies. ( Seee CFPB complaint # XXXX ). I have alerted XXXX today to place a freeze on my account to prevent further damage from Nelnet. I will contact XXXX and XXXX as well. My questions for Nelnet are : Why is Nelnet tampering with my credit ( pulling credit reports during the ongoing initial complaint which will be formally addressed ) and what legal and legitimate purposes was it initially used for and for what future purposes would another "" pull '' be deemed appropriate and necessary? What is Nelnet going to do to demonstrate in writng to all credit reporting agencies, to me and the CFPB that Nelnet has corrected all erroneous information from any credit reporting agency they have reported to? Secondly, Nelnet, is there a XXXX for the discharge of these loans? If there is, where is it and why must my credit be subjected to another around of "" pulls '' before a decision can be made about the in question XXXX and when can I expect to receive it in the mail?"
8708,"I attended XXXX school at the University XXXX XX/XX/XXXX-XX/XX/XXXX. I was not able to work because of XXXX. We filed bankruptcy in XX/XX/XXXX. We entered into a stipulated judgement on XX/XX/XXXX. The XXXX student load debt at that time was XXXX. The XXXX student loan was {$46000.00} at that time. In the agreement, I was to pay XXXX {$55000.00} without interest. I was to pay XXXX {$21000.00} without interest. The loans were sold and I continued paying on them. The XXXX loan was paid in full in XX/XX/XXXX. I just received the paperwork documenting that the XXXX loan was paid in full XX/XX/XXXX. During the last two years Navient revived the original loans INCLUDING INTEREST in the amount of {$310000.00} with 8 % interest two years ago. They show a consolidation in XX/XX/XXXX that does not exist. Even if Navient acquired these loans as a holder in due course, they could not acquire rights beyond the settlement amount of the settlement. In addition, I paid the loans as billed by the companies they were sold to. I am XXXX years old and working at a XXXX ; I make {$XXXX} per year ; my husband makes {$XXXX}. I have no assets. There is no way I can pay for these loans again, nor should I have to. Please help us."
1777,"I have student loans with the US DEPT of Education as well as well as the US Dept of Education XXXX. I had these XX/XX/2011. I have paid these religiously and I am current on everything. I had a company contact me called Windham Professionals and demand XXXX. 
They would n't allow payments. they said the only way to avoid fees is to agree to a lump sum payment. The issue was the Dept of education had crossed XXXX addresses when I updated my address. and when I got this notice from Windham It was messed up as well. The lady I spoke with was horrible and she would n't let me speak to anyone other than her. and then her reply was "" just do n't pay it! '' Th"
5952,I am a co signer on XXXX private loans that was originally with XXXX but of course is now Navient. We are having all the problems you have descripted in this lawsuit. No way out and they have screwed us all and want answers Now
8745,"I have XXXX in student loans after attending XXXX. Applied for a reduced payment plan because even at XXXX % the XXXX payment was too much. The reduced payment plan was for XXXX a month but I was n't approved, for the next XXXX months Navient took XXXX per month from my savings account without telling me. In fact, they continued to send me default notices even as they were taking my money. It was n't until I needed to dip into my savings account ( that I 'd had for years ) that I realized my funds we being siphoned. I called Navient and they informed me that by applying for the program I had also allowed them to take the money regardless and that since I was denied the program the funds being taken were not enough to match the expected payment of XXXX so I was still falling into default."
7639,"I took out a loan with Salliemae before they spilt with XXXX. I took out what was recommended for my studies and now I will be paying for it the rest of my life. Salliemae and XXXX began charging me ( without warning ) almost {$1000.00} per month for my loans. I had not found a job in my field yet and was already struggling to meet my other bills so on XXXX when my first payment was taken out all of my money was gone and then some. I called and tried to get help but they told me they could not lower payments and could n't work with me. So I was forced to go on deferment as my over 10 % interest rate continued tacking on money to my already sizable loan for a full year. Every month I would call and plead with them to help me get on an income based repayment plan but every time they refused and advised me that, because I was able to pay them {$100.00} every time I went on deferment, that they could n't help so I should just default. I had run out of deferments after a year and was billed once again for almost {$1000.00} ( which I could not afford ) and so I had to default on my loan. A day after my bill was supposed to be due I received a call from a Salliemae representative asking why I had not paid. When I explained the above their response was "" Well I do n't know why we would advise you to default, we want to help you repay your loans '' and it was at this point that they finally let me get on an income based program with a lower interest rate. 
However I find that I am not making a dent in what has now become almost {$100000.00} in debt due to my year of deferment and my default. The payments are still unreasonable and at this point Im basically paying off interest rather than the actual loan. 
My school ( XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX ) was no better at helping than Salliemae or XXXX. The school gave us no assistance with finding a job after graduation even though there were promises to send us offers or recommendations. It became abundantly clear that the school was in it to make money, not turn out media professionals that it claimed to have done. The curriculum was a joke during my second year and if it was n't for having a few teachers who did n't want to XXXX us over I would n't have learned anything or gained experience that I needed to find my first job ( on my own about 8 months after graduation mind you ). 
Salliemae and XXXX have given false advise and no help when it was desperately needed that has effected my credit score, my ability to get loans in the future, and my general overall well being. XXXX did not provide the education promised which led me to have to fight to get an entry level job in my desired field."
5482,"My father passed away on XXXX XXXX, 2016. He was a cosigner on my private student loans that paid for my XXXX studies at XXXX University in XXXX. Navient called his number because I was approximately one week late on making the payment in XX/XX/XXXX following his passing. I answered the call and informed them of his death. I made the payment over the phone and I was told to send in his death certificate to release him as a cosigner. On XX/XX/2016 I received an E-Correspondence from Navient stating that : "" Your cosigned private loan has been referred to XXXX XXXX , XXXX, to resolve the outstanding balance. They may attempt to contact the executor of the cosigner 's estate. If you provide a new, credit-worthy cosigner for your loan, we can recall the account from XXXX XXXX. If you do n't name a new cosigner ... XXXX XXXX XXXX attempt to locate the executor to discuss the status of the estate and the procedures for filing a claim with the probate court where the estate will be settled. The promissory note you signed provides that the loan may be declared in default and due in full if any borrower or cosigner passes away ; however, we wo n't declare the loan in default as long as you continue to make regular, monthly payments. '' I 'd thought my father would be released from the loans, especially since my loans are in good standing and I fully intend to continue making monthly payments."
8776,"I graduated from XXXX XXXX XXXX in XXXX. I have accumulated so much debt. In XXXX, I consolidated all my loans with the Department of Education through XXXX XXXX XXXX. To my suprise, I have received a XXXX summons from a client that I owed private loan in the amount of approimately {$23000.00}. I was not aware of XXXX scamming me to believing that my loans were consolidative. Now I am stuck with paying loan that I had no idea signing in the name of financial aid. XXXX degree is not worth anything. I could not even get a XXXX. I can not pay XXXX different student loans at the same time.XXXX XXXX scam me and now I am stuck with unnecessary bills and being sued XXXX times by the creditors. I do not know what to do now. 
XXXX XXXX have cause me serious pain and my credit is destroy because of judgement on my credit history. 
I need them to take their worthless, senseless and scamming degree. 
I am hoping the CFPB can find a resolution to helping the thousands of people who are victim of XXXX XXXX Scams. Be careful to sign documents from XXXX XXXX. They will tell you your loans can be consolidated but that is a lie. They will steal some of the loan they make you take and you are stuck with the bad debts. XXXX XXXX is a disgrace."
3831,"I have a XXXX degree and significant student loan debt. I am currently working with XXXX different lenders. I keep records, and I pay on time. While my balances are decreasing with XXXX of the XXXX companies, I am baffled by what I consistently see on my statements and the lack of progress that occurs with my Navient loans. The allocation of principal vs interest to each loan makes no sense. The lack of transparency and progress towards paying down loans with this company makes me fairly certain that fraud is occurring with this company. I have years of records and am happy to provide whatever is necessary to properly investigate this company and situation."
562,"Navient is not processing my payments for upward of 7 days!. All the while interest is still being charged on the principal due before the payment! I am sick of it! This continues to happen even though I complain every time I make a payment. 
Acct # XXXX"
408,When I signed up for XXXX XXXX I was under that this was the best career to go into. They did not explain that I would end up paying over XXXX. I did not understand the interest on the balance.
8943,"The 3rd party billing provider on my student loan offers one method of payment to avoid fees/ penalties/ convenience charges- and that is a direct checking account debit. Over the last 2.5years I have tried several times to set-up direct payments but each time there is an "" error '' with my information and the payment declines. This has led to negative information reported on my credit record, XXXX dollars in added fees and interest charges, and hours of frustrating phone conversations. I have recently discovered that the problem is the company 's online payment system. The system has only been using XXXX digit entries for routing number and account number. Unfortunately, my checking account number is eleven digits long. The system has only been using the first XXXX digits of my XXXX digit account number that is entered- which in turn has caused the error- resulting in the above mentioned grievances. The company has made no attempt to rectify the situation. I can only wonder how many others have been unfairly charged fees, penalties, added interest, and have had negative credit information reported, all because of a system issue on their end."
7933,I am one of the victims of XXXX/Navient. I made the mistake of consolidating my loans XX/XX/XXXX! I originally borrowed XXXX. It is XX/XX/XXXX and I am still paying the XXXX payment every month. I am a XXXX and work in a district in need and have requested forgiveness twice. I 've paid triple what I borrowed and still have miles to go. Please help me.
132,"Trying to get onto this XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX plan has been much more of a headache than it should have been, and my issues still have n't been resolved. When I submitted my materials last XXXX ( 2016 ) and received approval, my loans were transferred from XXXX XXXX to FedLoan. Since then I have called and called trying to get status updates. At first they were n't able to view any of my information for about a month. Then nothing showed up in any paperwork about the XXXX plan. After calling, I was told it could take up to 90 days for it to process and then would be visible on the website, but that it usually does n't take that long. I called after a couple of months had passed, was told by an irritable-sounding employee that it had n't been 90 days yet ( i.e. "" Why are you calling? '' ) I called again weeks after ( by my calculation ) 90 days had passed, and was told by an even more irritable sounding employee that it had n't been 90 days yet. A week or two later, I received a billing statement that showed I had made XXXX qualifying payments. I had been expecting something closer to XXXX qualifying payments! I called again today, spoke to another irritated-sounding employee who told me that I only had XXXX qualifying employers listed on file. There should have been XXXX, and I told her that. She told me that the third employer certification had been denied for missing info. I had NEVER received any kind of communication to this effect. She told me I "" would be more than welcome '' to resubmit the certification on the third employer. After getting off the phone, I looked up a copy of what I had submitted ; there was no info missing on the application. I called back and spoke to XXXX. Thank XXXX XXXX was a nice, patient employee who actually seemed interested in helping me resolve my problem. He looked everything up and discovered that the third certification just had not been processed. I 'm still not clear as to why, something about it being labelled a "" duplicate. '' It was a "" duplicate '' because I had originally resubmitted it last XXXX to include some missing info. They apparently just had not considered the corrected form. I wonder if this is something they do often. If I had n't been paying close attention I do n't think this "" error '' would have been caught - I never received a denial of my updated certification and I never received a breakdown of what payments would be considered qualifying payments and from which time periods. Anyway, XXXX said he was submitting a request to reconsider the paperwork they had already received and that it should take XXXX10 days to process. I do n't have very high hopes that it will be taken care of without more effort on my part. I am so sick of these student loans."
322,"I attempted to apply for a lower payment plan. When I submitted all of the paperwork required, my payment increased. When I complained to someone that I could not afford the prior payment, let alone the one that they were requiring me now to pay, they stated there was nothing they could do. I have now been deferring my loans for 2 years."
900,"My loans for grad school were transferred to NelNet in XXXX. I made payments on several occasions paying ahead, but every single time I set up the autopay so it would continue paying. I had some issues with it in XXXX but thought I finally had it working. As I was completing my taxes this year I realize the autopay was again switched off. It 's entirely possible I made an error at some point, but I ca n't tell you how many issues I had with their autopay. I received monthly bills with {$0.00} due this month. I realize now they mean I do n't have a payment due until XXXX. They 're just letting the interest accrue again since I paid ahead! It 's my fault for not catching it sooner, but I was very sure my loan was being paid on this whole time and may have confused it with NAVIENT, my other loan servicer who I 've completely paid off and also receive "" {$0.00} due '' messages. So rather than paying down my loans like I thought the last two years I now owe more than I did previously. This is UDAAP at its finest. While my own ineptitude contributed to this, I think NelNet should be put on notice for terrible servicing practices."
3878,"The Navient website will to allow me to make an extra payment to principal. I only have my loans at XXXX % interest. When I make a XXXX payment, XXXX goes to principal and XXXX to interest. I do n't understand this. My total loans are around XXXX."
1922,"my income since XXXX/XXXX/XXXX to present is net loss of at least {$XXXX} to date, since I started my business. I have no taxable income to date for XXXX so far. I was in financial hardship deferment until XXXX/XXXX/XXXX payment was due. I submitted the INCOME BASED OR INCOME SENSITIVE REPAYMENT APPLICATION to lower payment AND SUBMITTED XXXX pages of proof of income, banks statements, profit & loss statement for my business on XXXX/XXXX/XXXX. and on XXXX/XXXX/XXXX because Navient specifically asked for PROJECTED ANNUAL GROSS INCOME, which I submitted on that day. After many phone calls to Navient, Navient keeps asking me for more document and keep saying they have more than 15 business days to process the request. It is apparent to me they do not allow lowering payment for me. Loan borrower has rights. I know the loan payment can not legally be more than a percentage limit of his/her income. Realistically, I can not pay with the money I DO N'T HAVE! meanwhile, I am getting penalized because I do n't have {$430.00} to pay every month. Acting illegally, Navient wo n't lower my payment. I do not want my loans to go to default!!! I keep logs of every phone conversations I had with Navient as proof. I did pay {$100.00} due on XXXX/XXXX/XXXX. I have many other personal and business bills to pay. 
I believe Navient is acting illegally. I request a fair hearing. My family household of XXXX are all eligible for XXXX program, it is based on proof of low-income."
178,"They make it impossible to pay back, on time and always add negatives to your credit report. Hold times are ridiculous when calling."
6217,"Younomics is charging what I think is illegal interest. My initial loan amount was XXXX. The finance charge from the Truth in Lending statement show XXXX. However, the finance amount doubled. I have documentation that I plan to mail the IRS fraud department. The principle amount on the loan never decreases. I have XXXX XXXX dollar loans. XX/XX/XXXX, I paid over XXXX dollars in payments. The total principle amount never changed from XXXX. The XXXX sent by the loan servicer showed less then XXXX XXXX dollars in interest payments, which is incorrect. The company did not allocate money toward principle, and the XXXX they issued misrepresented the actual amount I paid toward interest. 

I am an Accountant. I have been keeping track of my payments, and documenting Younomics interest fraud. My monthly payment per loan is XXXX dollars. There is a XXXX dollar late fee, if payment is late. The principle amount never decreases. XX/XX/XXXX, there statement show interest accrued XXXX, plus XXXX late fee. However, they charged me XXXX under the title "" current amount '', The amount of XXXX is applied toward the past due balance of XXXX. The principle remains XXXX. If the XXXX current interest accrual is not paid, then it is also added to the past due amount. Every month there is additional amounts added to interest that 's not justified by contract terms. The statement show interest rate is 10.5 percent. 

Please investigate this company. I am sure there financial statements and tax returns are fraudulent. I have my original Truth in Lending statement, and I am sure I have the contract also."
5892,I have student loans through XXXX XXXX which is now Navient and last year they charged off my private loans due to non payment but still are showing I owe the entire amount and reporting me late to my credit report every month. I do pay a very minimal amount a month and have been for some time. Also the interest rate doubled the original amount I owed from {$60000.00} to {$120000.00}
4076,"I failed to be informed by Navient that my income based repayment was up for renewal last year. This resulted in my bank account being deducted a payment nearly {$800.00} more than my previous payments. When trying to resolve this, it took a few months and documentation provided by Navient is unclear and now states I was in forbearance twice. 

After realizing I failed to resubmit my application for income based repayment, I called Navient and explained I could not afford the payment and they suggested I go into forbearance for a short amount of time until the whole thing gets fixed and I will receive a refund from the DOE after I submit my application. This was their suggestion to which I thought was fine. I am now learning that since I went into forbearance, the unpaid interest on my account was capitalized causing my principal amount to to increase almost {$4500.00}. 

They failed to provide me with other solutions and support and I was not aware I would be adding almost {$4500.00} more to my principal amount. 

This seemingly harmless act of forbearance has added years to my repayment and more interest in their pockets."
2574,"I am experiencing financial difficulties repaying my loans due to my husband also having student loans. I was approved for deferment prior and now I have XXXX Income Contingent DL - Consolidated loans. I was not given any options. I attended XXXX XXXX XXXX, XXXX, TX."
6506,The lender which XXXX XXXX sold my account to Navient. Has been calling and leaving messages to someone who was not in my life at the time I was in school nor at the time when the loan was taken yet somehow now are calling this person and pretending to be a job source and stating that this person was given as a reference.
331,"I consolidated my students loans through the government, I selected the 30 year repayment for a fixed interest rate. Late last year, FedLoan Servicing, increased my payment by more than {$50.00} because they said they audited my account and determined I would n't pay it off in the 30 year time window. After multiple phone calls with FedLoan Servicing, they said I could n't do anything, I had to pay the new, increased amount. If I wanted it lowered, I would have to change my payment plan to a standard one ( with no guarantee of the interest rate not changing ) but there was no guarantee the payment would go down. They offered no other options, it was pay it or go in default. How can they raise the payment if it was a fixed payment amount for the entire life of the loan? I was sending extra money each month and they were n't applying it to the principal, as I requested, so the interest was only being altered and not by much. I worry that my payment will go up again in a year or two and already it is incredibly high at {$770.00} per month."
7473,"I 've been paying my Navient college loan payments ontime via the Internet. It was a place where I could see my bill, plan future payments and budget. Last week Navient blocked my access to online services saying that if I do n't take the clause to not have them call me off my record, then they will not give me online access. They are saying that I must pay over the phone and are charging me for this. Again, I not only make my payments ontime, I over the most minimum amount."
1109,"I 'm making payments of {$240.00} for XXXX subsidized loans and XXXX unsubsidized loans. When I 'm paying down the balance which has all the interest calculated in, I realized the balance was only going down by {$30.00}. I was told by Navient it is because I was on forbearance before and I 'm paying {$200.00} of interest for it. Should n't that still reflect in the balance because I 'm paying on interest? Last month my Total balance was {$42000.00} than I paid {$240.00} and my new balance is {$42000.00}. {$25.00} is all that went to my balance. It just does n't add up."
8754,I was give a XXXX month reduced payment plan by Navient representative of direct payment from my checking account. XXXX XXXX payments where deducted from my account when I called Navient rep to inquire why XXXX payment was not deducted I was told the original rep had made a mistake and that I needed to start making full payments I asked why I was not notified and only to be told they where sorry. I feel that because they agreed to reduced payments and deducted XXXX months of payments that not honoring the remaining XXXX months is a breach of contract and would like to know if legal action can be a course of action?
878,"- When my loans transferred from XXXX to XXXX, I was told that all information including my XXXX plan information, my payment amount, and direct debit information would transfer with it. 
- My loans were transferred as of XX/XX/XXXX due to participation in XXXX - XXXX was not able to give me any information regarding my loans from XX/XX/XXXX through XX/XX/XXXX with no explanation ever given. 
- On XX/XX/XXXX, I was told that my payment amount would be $ XXXX, on an XXXX plan - I paid the XXXX amount and set up direct debit for the regular monthly payments - On XX/XX/2017, I paid a lump sum on a single loan that I wished to pay down the principal of. I chose a high interest loan that I wanted to pay down at an accelerated rate. 
- My online account continued to reflect a monthly payment of $ XXXX - XXXX week later, I received a letter in the mail, dated for XXXX/XXXX/XXXX, stating that my monthly payment would be $ XXXX, due to my XXXX having expired. I had renewed my XXXX in XX/XX/XXXX, with XXXX, so this did not make sense to me. 
- I called XXXX who were unable to explain why my online account still stated a monthly payment of {$290.00} and I got a letter stating {$2800.00}. They refused to attempt to contact XXXX to confirm that I had renewed my IBR. They stated that I had to pay {$2800.00} for XXXX ( which was XXXX weeks away ) or put loans into forbearance. 
- Therefore, I asked for PART of the lump sum ( {$2800.00} worth ) to be reallocated to the XX/XX/XXXX payment so that it would be covered while I reapplied for XXXX due to the error in loan transfer. 
- Instead of reallocating part of the loan, they instead just redistributed the lump sum to "" pay my account ahead '' in spite of my express wishes to use the majority of the lump sum to pay down the highest interest loan. 
- I have called twice since this occurrence to ask the the payment be appropriately allocated, and they still have not corrected the error. 
- In addition, they received faulty information from XXXX that my loans had been in forbearance from XX/XX/XXXX through XX/XX/XXXX. This is inaccurate. I paid monthly PSLF-qualifying payments to XXXX from XX/XX/XXXX through XX/XX/XXXX, a total of XXXX payments by my count. They refused to contact XXXX to correct this misinformation and have therefore given me no credit for XXXX PSLF-qualifying payments during the time I was at my former employer. I sent the documentation proving that I had made payments and have received no response regarding the matter. 
- At this point, I have called XXXX XXXX times and spent about XXXX hours of my time on the phone with them. I work as a busy primary care physician and XXXX hours of my time is approximately {$400.00} based on my hourly wage. Every time I call they state they will correct the error only to generate new errors or fail to correct existing errors."
6592,"I am a single mother that went to college and got a degree. I am unable to afford the payments of my Private Loan which is through XXXX but American Education Services is the lender ( AES ). I have been in contact with them several times that the {$250.00} a month payment towards my private loan is difficult for me financially as I am a single mother. They have told me several times that they do not have any type way to help lower my payments. I was told no process is in place for income-driven repayment plans or any other type of payment plans. XX/XX/2015 I got accepted into XXXX University to pursue my XXXX studies then enroll into a XXXX. I had to quit school because AES told me that I had to repay my loan and I had exhausted all forbearances and deferments. I told them that I am XXXX to work towards becoming a XXXX and I would be in school for some years. I was informed that even when I am enrolled in XXXX I will have to make payments towards the loan. I had to quit school and I am a single mother who can not pay both a private loan and other loans on my salary. I would like to go back to school forcing me to work part-time, but it is impossible since they will not defer the private loan payments or even offer income-driven repayment."
2545,"Daily compounded interest is killing me! My payments are always on time and I pay more than the required amount. If I pay early XXXX month and then on time the next, the # of days x interest will not let me get ahead. This is terrible!"
4205,"I have been working with representatives at FedLoan and XXXX, in the process of consolidating some of my federal loans. I am doing this specifically because some of my federal loans are already PSLF-eligible, and I have been paying on them for over 4 years. Others, I recently realized, after previously been given incorrect information, are not PSLF-eligible. I was advised to consolidate only those loans, so that my payment can be lowered, and then those loans will also be paid, and the payment being made towards eventual loan forgiveness. In the transition of my loans from XXXX to FedLoan, a representative at some point processed the consolidation, and un-known to me, a previous attempt at doing this negated my 30-day window to reject the consolidation if something was wrong. As a result, all of my loans were consolidated, this making 4 years of payments I had made on PSLF-eligible loans obsolete. I have been dealing with FedLoan for over 6 months at this point, have complained to the Federal Student Loan Obmudsman, and have gotten nowhere. FedLoan 's consolidation department has said to me over the phone they could see where the error happened, but told me nothing can be done, the loans are consolidated, and I am out to luck. For the 5+ months, I have been given contradictory information from all loan servicers, have tried to document and follow-up with requests for information, and am at a point now where I have nowhere to turn. I am trying to make the most of the federal policies that have been outlined - my wife and I both work in education, all of our student loan debt is through public loans, and neither of us can get the cusomter service needed to ensure our loans are getting paid correctly and are PSLF-eligible."
9210,"I am writing on behalf of my XXXX year old XXXX. She is paying on her grandson 's XXXX XXXX XXXX loan, however they call her day and night requesting that she pay it off in full or they demand a very large payment. They threaten her with foreclosure and lawsuits. She pays monthly and they still call, they even call her on holidays. She asks them to stop calling and has put it in writing and the harassing calls continue. They 've told her they 'll call when ever they want and will continue until she pays off the loan. These calls are making her XXXX and I need to know what we can do to stop this harassment?"
4556,"I have a small private student loan with American Education Services with XXXX. 
My loan is in good standing and I make regular payments well above the minimum and have an auto-debit feature for increased payments. 
On XXXX XXXX, 2016 I entered XXXX. 
On XXXX XXXX, 2016, AES processed an automatic enrollment in a deferment without my knowledge and against my best interest since I was at least a XXXX student. 
I immediately protested on the very next day and asked for the deferment to be removed since I intended to make payments regardless of my status as a student as is my right. 
An agent of AES contacted me via email and claimed that it was in my best interest to have the loan in deferment, since the loan was subsidized and I would not pay interest. 
I responded immediately via email that the loan was not subsidized and a deferment was not in my best interest because not only would the interest accrue but I would lose the rate reductions in place on my automatic payments and the loan interest rate itself would rise because they charged more during deferment periods than payment periods. 
The agent claimed that was not true but they could process a removal of the deferment. 
I responded via email to reverse the deferment, it was not in my best interest. 
Another agent responded via email that I was in fact right, and they could reverse the deferment and put my loan status and payments back as they were, but they would not accept any more email communication and they would not correct the loan status until I write them another communication via post. 
The loan is small, the rate is small, and the interest charged in violation is small, so It would not be in my best interest to escalate to the point of damages, but these agents have fiduciary responsibilities to service accounts in the person 's best interest and can not change the considerations to the agreement to best fit their bottom line especially when a violation like this is immediately caught, protested, and a request to return to a payment status is made."
5351,"I attended XXXX in XXXX, a 6 month intensive XXXX class that promised job placement as well as lifelong access to continue to attend classes and use the school 's equipment when available. The school closed without notice in XX/XX/XXXX and from what I 've been able to find online, they filed bankruptcy. 
XXXX I have been paying $ XXXX-XXXX a month since I graduated almost 10 years ago and I still owe over $ XXXX. I currently pay my loan to American Education Services who have refused to send me any information surrounding my account, claiming I selected a "" paperless option '' for my bill therefore all documentation from them will only be paperless. My original loan was though XXXX XXXX, I do have the original contract if that is helpful at all."
2276,Excess interest on student loan
6877,"I graduated XXXX XXXX XXXX ( XXXX XXXX XXXX, TX ) back in 2006. They are supposed to help you find a job but later they just forget about you. I submitted my resumes to a lot of companies back then with NO LUCK / NO RESPONSE. I have n't been working on my field because I have not been able to ... I found out right after I XXXX tried to sue our campues because all of them went on job interviews and COULD NOT get a job - their reason was "" XXXX software was too outdated and old '' and what they had been learning was not up to date in the "" real world '' - I wish I would have known this while I was still attending because I would have dropped out .... They don ; t really help you get a job like they claim, they do not transfer credits so you ca n't really go anywhere else.. I am a single mom with no child support - I am stuck with a XXXX privete loan that I have not been able to pay because I was trying to make ends meet. I got evicted from my apt . a few years ago. I have been paying something every month towards my private loan but I can barely make that payment to NAVIENT ( well, directly to XXXX collection agency ) - There 's has been a lot of lawsuits against XXXX XXXX on different states and more and more students are joining. I feel like I should not be paying for this since no employer back then was interested at all and XXXX XXXX did nothing.That school is a scam."
3852,"I consolidated all my loans with FedLoan. It 's supposed to be a loan forgiveness program, but it 's obviously a scam. I 'm on an income based payment plan, every year I have to fill out a form stating my income the previous year. They have raised my rates continuously every year since I signed on with them. I ca n't afford the constant increases, and have appealed to them, but they continue to raise the payments. They go by your gross income, which is not truly reflective of the pay you take home. They say that it does n't matter than your gross income is n't your take home pay, or that you may have other bills. I have decided to get out of the Fedloan forgiveness program, as it is obviously a gimmick to make you pay as much as possible before they actually forgive the loan in 10 years. I think they should not be allowed to use your income before deductions to determine what rate you can afford to pay back. To anyone thinking of consolidating their loans under Fedloan, I would discourage them from doing so. The XXXX '' Program is a fraud."
9261,"Navient is calling my cell and my work phone multiple times a day. I have asked them to stop calling my work phone because it is interfering with my job. They call me everyday and usually XXXX times a day, even if I talk to them they will call again a few hours later. I have asked them to stop contacting me many times and i will call them to make arrangements because I am unable to negotiate terms with them because they want too much money. I have told them they are harassing me."
5102,"Navient has taken unauthorized debits from my checking account XXXX during the month of XXXX, 2015. They took unauthorized debits once on or about XXXX XXXX, 2015 for {$110.00}, and most recently on XXXX XXXX, 2015 for {$390.00}. 
On or about XXXX XXXX, 2015, I discovered that Navient had automatically debited my XXXX checking account for {$110.00} for the student loan ending in XXXX. I had not authorized this transaction or set it up. My father makes an automatic payment for the loan ending in XXXX, and had given Navient HIS account information for the automatic payment. I had set up automatic payments for about {$390.00} for the rest of my private loans, and my payment was not scheduled to come out until XXXX XXXX. I called Navient to demand that my {$110.00} be credited back to my XXXX account, and that they take the payment from my father 's account instead. 
Navient incorrectly stated that I had enrolled all of my loans into auto-payment on XXXX XXXX in the amount of {$500.00}, and that they only had my XXXX information for the payments. That was false. I had only set up the {$390.00} payment recently, and my father set up the {$110.00} payment with his bank information. Ultimately, Navient agreed to do a direct refund to my XXXX checking account for the {$110.00}. They also agreed to cancel all auto-payments. My father was supposed to call back and set up his auto-payment for {$110.00} at a later date in XXXX, and I was going to call back and set up my auto-payment for the {$390.00} at a later date in XXXX. I was supposed to have my refund of {$110.00} by XXXX XXXX at the latest. 
My father called Navient back between XXXX XXXX and XXXX XXXX to re-establish his auto-payment for {$110.00}. His next payment is due XXXX XXXX, 2015. I had not called back to re-establish my auto-payment for {$390.00} as of XXXX XXXX, 2015. 
On XXXX XXXX, 2015, I logged into my XXXX checking account again to check my balance. I was alarmed to see that Navient had again taken an unauthorized automatic payment from my checking account! I had not called back to re-establish my auto-payment, but Navient had debited {$390.00} from my checking account. It was taken in XXXX unauthorized transactions ( {$120.00} ; {$100.00} ; {$71.00} ; {$93.00} ). This is especially egregious that Navient took these unauthorized payments despite agreeing on XXXX XXXX, 2015 that it would cancel all auto-payments and to wait until we called back to re-establish them. 
I am going to call Navient now to demand a direct refund. My funds are rather limited at this time, and I am unable to allow Navient to invade my checking account and debit funds at will without my authorization."
5692,"I was on a payment plan that was dependent on me making my monthly payments on time. If I missed even XXXX payment, my payment plan would no longer be valid and I would have to pay about 5 times as much per month, which obviously I can not afford. I was set up on automatic payments so that I would never miss a payment. However, every XXXX4 months, my auto payment suddenly would n't go through and I would contact the lender Immediatly and they would tell me since I was late on my payment, my plan was no longer valid, and as a result they tacked on so many penalty fees. I would then beg and plea and get back on the payment plan, but they would never waive the penalty fees. My loan has basically more than doubled because of these penalty fees that were not my fault. I am currently out of work, trying to get XXXX, and I have a newborn. My husband is self employed and we live paycheck to paycheck."
9323,"Over a period of a year the following occurred: 
Dishonestly told me they could not establish a payment plan unless I made a down payment and committed to a monthly payment I couldn't afford. Threatened that if I didn't begin. Along these payments they would garnish my wages. 
Omitted multiple requests to change my address, leading to never receiving ability to dispute an administrative wage garnishment. 
Placed administrative wage garnishment while not allowing my fair right to dispute. 
Despite their unlawful methods of implementing my garnishment, I attempted to  set up loan rehab and on XXXX) occasions of providing the requested info, I was told they never received it. And after (6) months of compliance, I was told these payments were not considered adequate since they ""never"" received my documentation. They would consider restarting the program after I finally requested I would no longer comply unless all contact was in writing and requested verification of what my balance was based on, since it doesn't match my loan info. They claimed this was a cease and desist, and would no longer deal with me or provide me with any additional information. 
Despite $XXXX in the funds they've recovered my balance has not gone down. To date they still reflect me owing the,  a balance of $XXXX. 
They have yet to provide adequate information breaking down the costs my debt they claim I owe. The info that was provided to me, only accounts for approx 30% ($XXXX) of the balance they claim I owe them ($XXXX). 
Finally after months of attempting to dispute the garnishment they finally rescinded it after I filed a complaint the myeddebt website. I provided hardship paperwork, however FAMS, nor their ""special accounts"" will discuss my account. I was directed to contact my Ed debt, Whom directed me back to FAMS, despite explaining their refusal."
5586,"It is impossible to view a statement with clear numbers for how much I owe, how much the interest rate has gone up and even the dates for the loan. Specifically they increased my interest rate and I ca n't look at previous statements to see when. I think it was this month. I 've had a loan with XXXX since XX/XX/2004, then Navient. For YEARS it 's been impossible to deal with them - repeated misplacement of documents during consolation, differing information between agents on the phone, hours spent trying to answer simple questions and changes made to payments without my consent. I have many years documented, including names, id numbers and conversations. Most currently I just want to see a statement and the online site has no option to do so. Also the loan never said it was variable when I first signed on with XXXX. It was sold to XXXX, and is now under Navient. Please help!"
8076,"Wells Fargo is not treating me fairly or as a customer. They are withholding information because they want to as a result of fore-cable collection actions and causing other accounts to become delinquent. It has been 42 days since I have requested information and no proper action has been taken by Wells Fargo. Instead of treating me fairly like a normal customer they are sending me blanket legal responses that do not resolve any issues or provide me with information I need to move forward. 

I have made my requests much shorter and simpler. On XXXX XXXX I made a request of who I could get in touch with regarding funds and I was told I would get a response by XXXX XXXX, 2016."
8575,"I filed numerous complaints against NELNET to no avail. I have submitted multiple correspondences to their corporation asking them to please submit validation and verification of the debt they stated that I owe ; and as of to date, they have failed to state a claim in which relief can be granted and they are still reporting numerous accounts on my credit profile. I have ask them to cease and desist all communication with me until they have provided me the original document with my wet-ink signature and they have yet to provide any documentation to me. If they claimed that they loan me any "" money '' than it should't be this hard to provide me with the documentation but the truth is they never loan me any money it was my signature on the promissory note that created the funds and why are thy reporting numerous accounts on my create profile when there was only XXXX promissory note. I am tired of the fraud that have been committed against me and I am coming to you for help on this matter."
1625,It 's hard to believe the some other debt services that do n't have a better system while some of us are paying who are paying our bills with our continued original debt collection services are getting calls like these when they do n't know we have already chose them to make our payments.
8067,"Back in 2008 or maybe earlier, before or at the beginning of the financial crisis, and while in XXXX, I co-signed a student loan for my parent guardian, grandmother, who is now XXXX XXXX XXXX. She used the loan to continue her education at XXXX. 

I am seeking a removal from this loan as I believe it was an unsuitable loan and arrangement for the following reasons : I was a cash-strapped college student and young adult ( XXXX or XXXX XXXX XXXX ) with minimal working history. 
I lacked the background, cash flows, and credit history to make this deal secure. 
I did not have the background or knowledge to fully ascertain the risks and associated with co-signing the loan. 
And lastly, if I had the mindset of a reasonable borrower, I would have not signed or entered the loan. 
Considering all factors, the loan is unreasonably termed and rated, making it predatory and aggressive. 
Given these combined reasons, I demand Navient release me from this loan."
835,"With this school the lies started at my first meeting with school representative. I am now XXXX and had taken early retirement I attended XXXX from XX/XX/XXXX to XX/XX/XXXX. I had been looking for work but my age presented a problem. So I thought if I could obtain some It training I would be more job worthy. I applied at XXXX. I wanted to take XXXX but they said that class was no longer available. XXXX things that were deceptive. I was told cost for class was {$9000.00} which I assumed was a year. But it was per semester. also they always filed the student loans for you all I got was confirmation that the loan was approved. When that money was not enough the school would allow you to take out a loan with them. But this loan had to be paid back immediately where as the Fed Loan gave you 6 months after graduation to begin payments. But they never told me that because I assumed all the loans would be handled the same way the school loan went into collections. I have since paid it off. I personally asked the professor in assembly if the school was accredited he said that it was. I learn now that 's not the case. I really feel bad for the Vets alot of them when there to get their "" paper '' saying they have an XXXX degree. I was contacted by a representative of XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX. stating they could have my remaining debt of {$13000.00} completely eliminated and get the {$10000.00} I have paid into my student loans returned for the small fee of {$990.00}. Is this leget? Been scammed once dont want to go through that again."
9077,"non stop calling even after telling the company that a check was sent. Also, makes threats to my co-borrower who is now an elder and on a fixed income"
1180,"Due to the recent lawsuit against Navient, I would like my student loans verified. I am very concerned about the recent allegations. If you are unable to verify my loans, I ask that they be removed."
1758,"I got my loans through Navient in XXXX. I got put through for barren twice, wasw never given another option. they made me pay almost {$500.00} to go into forbarren for a year."
2970,"I went to XXXX XXXX XXXX from XXXX XXXX XX/XX/XXXX, I ended up dropping out due to the need to work more hours at my job, so that I could afford to live, and pay rent at my apartment.Upon the time I was enrolled, I was told that via scholarships and federal aid, my tuition would be 100 % covered. Within one week, that figure changed, and I was told I needed to take out a federal student loan to cover the overage. I was excited about school, so I went ahead and took out the loan with my mother as the co-signer. I have had a hard time ever since, from paying on my loans, to just trying to get back into school. I have tried to contact the school location I went to, in XXXX, Tx, several times to get my loan documents, any paperwork that I signed, as well as my transcripts to no avail. Now that I have received information that the school has closed down, I 'm looking to file for "" Borrower Defense to Repayment ''. If there is anyway you can help me with this issue, please do, as I 'm confused as to what I can do next. I can no longer reach the school via phone or email, and have moved over XXXX miles away to help care for my parents."
3199,"XXXX acquired my federal XXXX school student loans from XXXX and took the opportunity to remove the 2 % discount afforded to my loan repayments, because of auto debit. I called them out on this 4x and also filed a complaint with the XXXX office and still to this day, XXXX can not confirm how much in interest they have overcharged me in acquiring and handling my loans. 

I want a full and immediate refund of the interest charged on my loans. 

Also, what legal remedies do I have for this? I believe XXXX has institutionalized a criminal act and is probably overcharging interest on thousands of other student loans."
2418,"XX/XX/XXXX, I XXXX from XXXX University with my XXXX degree. I became a XXXX in XX/XX/XXXX and started a new job as a XXXX that same month at a XXXX in South Dakota. 
Since that time, I have been diligently attempting to payoff my Student Loans early, but continually have had difficulty working with FedLoan Servicing in this process. I have contacted FedLoan Servicing multiple times via phone and e-mail in regards to paying ahead and never get the same answer as to when and how to make these additional payments. I simply hear that by making additional payments, this can interfere with my direct debit. I feel as a graduate student who has the ability to pay above my monthly payment and is wanting to, that this service should be more accurate with their responses and more helpful. I have asked multiple times if I wanted to make additional payments ( outside of my direct debit ) when should I do this during the month. I have yet to receive the same answer twice from them. I have been told multiple times that this will effect my direct debit which I do not want to mess up. 
I have also called regarding setting up direct debit and was told that once I apply for direct debit, I must then e-mail if I want my funds dispersed a specific way. I sent my e-mail on XXXX/XXXX/XXXX about how how I would like my funds dispersed and finally received a response on XXXX/XXXX/XXXX stating that this could be done and would apply to my XXXX/XXXX/XXXX payment due date. I checked my account on XXXX/XXXX/XXXX only to find it stating I was "" delinquent. '' I called and the FedLoan Servicing representative stated that I was delinquent due to my payment being due on a Sunday and the payments do n't take place on weekends - I 'm not sure why I would be delinquent because of this. I also noted that my payment was not disbursed correctly, but did note the e-mail I received stated it may take a few days. It is now XXXX/XXXX/XXXX and my payment still has yet to be disbursed properly. In the meantime, I have yet to receive an answer as to how to make an additional payment without it interfering with my direct debit. 
Today, I called XXXX/XXXX/XXXX to see why my payment has not been dispersed properly, went through my exact e-mail that was sent with the representative who stated the money was disbursed improperly due to how it the e-mail instructions were processed ; I am happy to share my e-mail with how clear my instructions were. As of now, I am on hold, waiting for the representative and my call is at 50 minutes and the problem has yet to be resolved ; I should be reimbursed for my time. 
I feel it is very unfortunate that the USA is public about how high student debt is in our country, but does not discuss how difficult it is to make a payment. I am a highly educated student with a professional position and would like to work toward eliminating this debt as soon as possible and I would appreciate it if FedLoan Servicing would be able to answer my questions with trustworthy answers that do not fluctuate with the person answering. I also feel that a Federal servicing place like this one, should have an office staffed with employees capable of helping students. After all, many students who have just graduated from college have many other new adaptations to make and paying their student loans off should not be so difficult. 
I find it interesting how the company is so helpful for those who ca n't pay their student loans as the company makes more money on interest. The company needs to learn how to work with people who are able and willing to pay ahead. The time I have spent trying to organize direct debit, explain how I would like my funds disbursed, and trying to get an answer on how to make additional payments has been ridiculous. Still no correct answer!"
5030,"After graduating college in 2002 I began to repay my student loans. I had approximately {$17000.00} in Federal subsidized loans. After struggling to repay them, XXXX XXXX reached out to me to consolidate my loans into a lower, monthly payment. I agreed to consolidate my Federal subsidized loans with XXXX XXXX. Unfortunately, I ( nor my mother, who was helping me make this decision ) did not fully understand what I was agreeing to, nor was XXXX XXXX forthcoming in disclosing that the lower payment would be interest only. Not until the interest only period was up, and I received a notification that my payment was increasing to include a small portion of my principle, did my spouse and I inquire about the terms of my loan. I contacted XXXX XXXX to ask for a copy of the loan terms and promissory note. After several more requests for this information, XXXX XXXX finally agreed to send me a copy. The promissory note did not have a physical signature on it and the note itself, was very vague pertaining to the loan terms. 
Clearly the terms were not fully disclosed to me because shortly after I consolidated the loan, I went back to school ( which was my plan at the time of the consolidation ) and made interest only payments during that time. However, if I had left them as Federal subsidized loans, I could have deferred them while I went back to school and not paid any interest. 
After reviewing the loan with my spouse, I reached out to XXXX XXXX to attempt a mutually beneficial resolution because I felt mislead and uninformed. XXXX XXXX refused. 
I contacted the Inspector General 's Hotline to report this. They told me that there was nothing that they could do for me. I did n't know that the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protect existed to assist similar people in my situation, until a recent report was published describing a lawsuit involving Navient ( i.e. XXXX XXXX )."
3836,"I am a XXXX and have worked full time since 2012 aside from maternity leave. I was fortunate to qualify for XXXX Loan Repayment through XXXX and XXXX which helps me make payments for 3 years, providing me more money each month than I am required to pay to FedLoan Servicing. 

Recently I submitted my Public Service Loan Forgiveness ( PSLF ) certification but was shocked to see that I have only made XXXX qualifying payments in the 4 years that I have been working at my XXXX. FedLoan Servicing 's justification is that the extra money that I paid on top of what was due, automatically was put towards the next month, disqualifying ALL of those payments from PSLF. 

For each month I made payments from between {$2800.00} and XXXX each month, while only required to pay {$720.00}. My bills however show {$0.00} due every month. 

I find it outrageous and disheartening that by default, overpaying your bill each month would result in "" Paid Ahead '' disqualifying payments from the PSLF program, unless I had taken additional steps to personally request that the money not be put towards the following month. I feel like the last 3 years of my payments have been wasted, and my XXXX program actually extended my PSLF months. 

This results in 3 years of additional payments, which is real money. It results in me being locked into a qualifying employment situation for XXXX additional years, all because for a period of time I was able to pay extra. I find it unjustifiable that by default, extra payments have negatively impacted my life."
9409,"I was told by Account Control Technology, that they were contracted by XXXX XXXX XXXX to collect delinquent student loans. I was to pay XXXX for seven years and after that the rest of my student loan would be forgiven. They called it the forgiveness program. I 'm a XXXX Veteran and my wife and were trying to purchase a home, to discover the negative student loan on my credit report. I called the FSA they told me no money had been paid on my loan EVER! I 'm XXXX years old and I ca n't start over again. These people have robbed me of XXXX dollars that they deducted out of my account ( ACH ). Now I have no way of getting my money back, I ca n't afford an attorney and my wife and I may have to move because we are occupying the house we wished to purchase. The owners are wanting to sell ASAP. I 'm at a loss. Can you help me?"
5679,I was enrolled in XXXX XXXX for the XXXX semester of 2015. I was found ineligible for the XXXX and financial aid was declined so I had to drop out of my classes and leave school. I am now being told that the loan was paid and I owe the money. My transcripts will prove I did not attend school during this time and I would like to see what recourse I can take against XXXX XXXX because since they have reported me as being delinquent I my credit score has began to decline and It has lessened my financial capabilities.
4401,"I borrowed money through XXXX to help our XXXX children attend college. The XXXX Loans were in addition to the small loans our children took out. Initially these loans were serviced through XXXX which later became Navient. My guarantor was XXXX. On XX/XX/XXXX my total disbursement was {$55000.00}. Due to other financial responsibilities I applied for and of course was given multiple forbearances. I was unable to make consistent payments on my consolidated loan until XX/XX/XXXX. From XX/XX/XXXX until XX/XX/XXXX I was charged a total of {$15000.00} capitalized interest and a total of {$880.00} in late fees. 
On XX/XX/XXXX I contacted Navient and they provided a copy of my payment history. My outstanding principle at that time was {$62000.00}. At that time I attempted to speak to a Navient representative but they appeared to not have a financial back ground and they were unable to answer my questions. I was told that there were no supervisors or loan specialists that I could speak with. From the information they provided to me I was not able to "" decipher '' exactly how the payment history is recorded with the way they added capitalized interest to the principle column but then subtracted it in the interest column. At no point do they give you a "" running '' balance due. Frustrated with the never declining balance despite payments of {$17000.00} from XX/XX/XXXX to XX/XX/XXXX I contacted the Federal Student Loan Ombudsman Program in XX/XX/XXXX for assistance with understanding this loan process. They were helpful and did initiate a case number. Their answer to me was that my loan would be paid off when I die or in the tragic event XXXX of my children dies. Since I initially contacted the Ombudsman 's I have PAID Navient an additional {$3400.00} ( 9 months ). They say my unpaid principal balance as of XX/XX/XXXX was {$60000.00}. If my calculations are half way correct I paid XXXX off my principle. XXXX % of my payments have gone to interest ( {$5.00} a day ). My payments are {$380.00} a month ( {$4600.00} a year ), my interest rate is 4 %. Interestingly for the past several years my Form XXXX always states I have paid {$4600.00} in interest. If that is the case it is costing me {$12.00} a day in interest. ( It appears they are falsifying their XXXX forms, probably in an effort to keep participants from complaining, even though if you itemize your taxes you can not claim more than {$2500.00} in interest. In XX/XX/XXXX Navient reported that my loan will be paid in full on XX/XX/XXXX and I will have paid {$90000.00}, at the total cost of {$35000.00} for borrowing {$55000.00}. I will also be XXXX. 
The only '' good '' ( I am being facetious ) part of this story is that XXXX my children graduated from XXXX college programs, XXXX makes slightly above minimum wage and is happy as a XXXX. Now retired and receiving Social Security I wake up every day knowing I am accruing {$5.00} a day interest on a loan I will never payoff despite trying. This gives new meaning to the phrase "" till death do you part. ''"
4474,"This is the THIRD complaint I am filling against Campus Partners within the last couple of months. 

The last complaint ( Case # XXXX ) was sent on XX/XX/XXXX. It has yet to be responded to within the Consumer Financial Protection portal. The most recent response was to the first complaint in which they claim that I had not sent necessary paper work over the past year. They neglected to mention that I have been calling them to check the status of my account and faxing completed paperwork for the past year. 

Finally, on XXXX/XXXX/XXXX, I was able to reach a knowledgeable customer service representative, XXXX -- employee # XXXX, who researched the correspondence and discovered that I HAD initially sent the CORRECTLY completed paperwork in XXXX XXXX. As a result, she in turn apologized, corrected the issue, but unfortunately only sent correspondence to XXXX. Shortly after, I noted the one-sided correction, I filed another complaint requesting Campus Partners to correct the issue by sending CORRECTLY UPDATED information to ALL XXXX credit bureaus. 

Since, I had not received a correspondence through your portal from them, I checked my credit report today XXXX/XXXX/XXXX at XXXX ( I hand't done so during the weekend ). 

I was INFURIATED to see that rather than correcting the issue by sending the properly updated records to ALL XXXX credit bureaus, they, AGAIN, sent derogatory information to XXXX stating that I have defaulted. 

NOW my credit report states that I am defaulted on the same loan that XXXX, employee # XXXX, told me was originally misfiled in XXXX of XXXX, and shortly thereafter on XX/XX/XXXX she sent updated information to XXXX. 

After seeing this, I called Campus Partners today, XXXX/XXXX/XXXX, at XXXX XXXX. and spoke to XXXX, employee # XXXX. Initially, XXXX stated that my account information was unavailable because the information was being transferred. After I demanded an explanation to the recent errors on their behalf, she was able to locate a screen shot of my account and claimed that she would correct the issue by sending the proper update to XXXX, XXXX and XXXX. 

Unfortunately, I do not have faith that matters will be properly handled, as this has been an issue for an entire year. It took an ENTIRE year for them to ADMIT to THEIR error, which caused ME to be seen as an unworthy credit applicant."
9241,"I 'm XXXX at a state university. I have been contacted in my office by Windham Professionals, presumably regarding the student loans I am behind on. They were very rude first to my office mate then to me. They would first have had to contact the XXXX department 's main office as I do n't give out my office number. I am only in my office a few hours during the week which means they would have to have spoken to someone to determine when I am in. Moreover, I share my office with XXXX other people so this is humiliating and a form of harassment for them as well. This is humiliating and completely inappropriate contact and I consider this to be harassment. I want it to stop immediately or I will consider legal action."
7024,"I have been dealing with American Education Services since XXXX XXXX to attempt to receive a full account reconciliation because they have admitted that at some point in my repayments ( begun in XXXX ) mistakes were made in distributing my monthly payments amongst the XXXX different loans ( with multiple distributions ) that they serviced. XXXX set of loans is supposed to be held by XXXX XXXX and the other set of loans through the XXXX program. For years I paid double the minimum on my GATES loans in order to pay down the principle as soon as possible. I also tried as often as possible to pay more than a minimum payment on the XXXX Bank repayment plan to take advantage of addition percentage points off the next months accrued interest. As of XXXX XXXX I began to get very confusing billing statements and delinquency notices that made no sense according to my bank records. I 've spent hours on the phone with account reps, escalating to account managers, following up eight time since XXXX, XXXX trying to get this resolved. I have all my notes detailing conversations, next steps promised etc. Since XX/XX/XXXX I was promised that I would get a full accounting with the amounts reallocated so that I would know exactly where my accounts stand but that has not happened and several staff have admitted that it "" fell through the cracks '' or it has been "" researched several times but without a decision '' as to how to handle the corrections. In XX/XX/XXXX, in part on the advice of the account rep, I refused to pay anything more until I could be provided with accurate reconciled data about these loans. With no response, I called back in XX/XX/XXXX, XX/XX/XXXX, XX/XX/XXXX and XX/XX/XXXX only to be told that the loans in question had been put into default, my credit is ruined. In multiple conversations I have been assured that they were working to fix the problems and the loans would come out of default but as of XXXX/XXXX/XXXX there is no resolution. I have even contacted XXXX XXXX directly to arrange to pay off the loans, assuming they could perhaps make AES get the payoff amount corrected -- but XXXX XXXX no longer provides school loans and have no record of them in there system apparently. So my issues are : who really holds these loans anymore? how can I get these loans settled if no one can give me accurate account status? and more importantly where did the money I have diligently paid for years go???? 
Let me be clear, I am not claiming that : 1. I never missed or was late for a payment, especially early on when I started repayment during the Recession. 
2. I did not stop making payments as of XXXX, XXXX. It was my only leverage, I thought, to get this institution to correct their own errors! And the account reps indicated if I kept making payment before the error was resolved it would likely make the situation worse. 
But I paid using separate checks, with separate memo notes as to which loans they applied to on the check, in separate envelopes. And the same for my online banking. I even tried to apply for Direct electronic payment using their system, and they had to admit to me after two months that they did n't know why but my application never went through -- it was put on hold -- with no explanation. 
How much is my responsibility in the face of this experience? Is this reaching a level of breach of fiduciary duty? In two weeks my credit union researched and provided me proof of all my school loan payments ; what possible defense could AES have that they can not do the same? Be aware that I have been informed that there is no recourse for speaking directly with an AES troubleshooter or complaint manager. They only accept written correspondence to yet another division in the company. I will be filing a credit dispute form, that again must be on their form and mailed in ( no online option ). Please assist me if you can."
5607,"I have been dealing with Navient for a year and getting different information from different people is getting exhausting. I spoke with a member of the customer service XX/XX/XXXX for a due date change. He could not help me so he transferred me to another department. I got transferred to XXXX different people that day and no one helped me. I got a call from consumer relations on XXXX/XXXX/2016 to resolve the due date change. They agreed to change my due date effective XXXX/XXXX/2016. He also said that because I had just made a payment, I would not have to pay again for XX/XX/XXXX, and I would n't need to make a payment until XXXX/XXXX/2016. Well ... I got an email XXXX/XXXX/2016 that I was still past due. I called to find out why, and the due date change went into effect for XXXX/XXXX/2016, so according to the system, I was past due. I made a payment on XXXX/XXXX/2016 and the representative informed me that she would pull the call from when I spoke with customer relations for the due date change, and follow-up with me in 5 days with what they heard as to whether or not he did in fact tell me that I would not have to pay anything else from XX/XX/2016-XX/XX/2016. I still have not heard anything regarding this and I do not want to call Navient, because I will only get the run around."
7065,"I am the co-signer on the loan for my son. He is unable to take off work to submit a complaint. XXXX College in XXXX, WI is the name & location of the school. We took out this loan in XXXX and were not provided with the note disclosure statement which said that the total amount due by the end of the payment period was {$46000.00}. Had we seen that paperwork, we would n't have taken out the loan. Due to our lack of ability to make all of the payments on time, our {$12000.00} loan now has a balance of {$13000.00} as of XXXX/XXXX/XXXX. We contacted AES the servicer to determine how we could rectify this situation and were told to make {$73.00} payments. We began making {$75.00} payments XXXX XXXX of XXXX. We were unaware that the payments being made were only covering the interest. Our payments have increased to {$160.00} a month and have been consistent since XXXX of XXXX. We understand that our interest has accrued due lack of payment but since we were not made aware of the full amount we would be required to pay, we would like a concession on the remaining balance."
42,I was told that it could be wiped off and consolidated but they just kept putting it in forberance and adding interest every time. I 'm a single mom with no income at the moment. I have n't worked in a long time. I have explained this numerous times to them and was told it would get taken care of.
4913,i started making payment to XXXX and all of a sudden they switched me to navient in which it seems my loans has increased
3462,Their website wo n't allow me to access repayment options it takes me to the page where I can pay the current due instead of showing me income driven repayment plans!!!
3008,"My student loans are more than what they are suppose to be, I have several different loans I do not recall signing for. XXXX was suppose to be XXXX fee and I see a number of loans from them.. XXXX was to be XXXX price and I see several from Iowa and XXXX that I did not sign for. My degree with XXXX is sometime over looked and not considered because of the campus closing, therefore they do not consider the online degree credible. I have no way of knowing what loans I am paying on because I have so many that I do not recall signing for."
3078,"I was a student at XXXX in XXXX from XX/XX/XXXX-XX/XX/XXXX and they shut down / sold to become another school. I asked for my transcript for years and was never granted XXXX. In XX/XX/XXXX I attended XXXX for a few semesters and even they could never get my transcript so I could n't continue without my grades and I did n't want to start over. I told several representatives that I wanted to file complaints. Since I was never able to receive my transcript, I wanted a loan forgiveness or something of the sort. XXXX and Navient NEVER helped me. Every time I ask them to put it in forbearance or deferment it 's supposed to be for XXXX months but I get calls about it a few months later saying I 'm XXXX days late. My loans have almost doubled and for what?! I ca n't even have a piece of paper with my name and achievements on it! I have nothing to show for my loan debt! This is going on XXXX years since I started school and it has been the worst decision of my life! It was supposed to make things better for me!"
8859,"I attended the XXXX XXXX school located at XXXX XXXX XXXX, XXXX, PA XXXX. To attend this for profit school I had to take out private loans. Theses loans were at extremely high interest rates because I was a young adult with no established credit history. Some of the loans interest rates were as high as 13 %. I am not asking to have all of the loans forgiven. I am just asking for some reprieve on the increase in the loans due to the insane interest rate over the years. I last attended and completed this school in 2006 and I have been dealing with the pain of making payments on a loan that will never go away because of the high interest rates."
8614,"Was in year 3 of my XXXX degree in XXXX XXXX. I pulled out loans each year with Sallie Mae. Could not afford to pay for University out of pocket. I applied for year XXXX loans and was denied due to a "" high loan balance ''. Now they want {$910.00} a month in repayment. Without a degree I am unable to find work paying high enough to afford {$910.00} a month and any attempt in having the loans put on income based repayment have been met with "" we do not offer income based repayment on private student loans )."
1695,"As a XXXX, to went to XXXX school back in XXXX and finally finished in XXXX as I worked to support my family and take care of a elderly and sick parent. During that time, we took out loans for XXXX University. We needed to student loans so I could keep going to school while raising a family, trying to pay a mortgage, and caring for my dad. During those years, my ex-wife was in charge of the finances and she made payments. In XXXX, she began a divorce process which ended in XXXX. During that time, I took over the finances and looked at the loan balances an discovered we had hardly paid down anything. I asked for the payment history from the loan server and XXXX ( agency that I think issued the loans ) and my ex-wife had been making payment. When I looked at old bills and inquired with the bank, they said that only minimal payments were being made. However, when you looked at the bills the minimum payment was in larger print. It appeared to be the payment that was required to pay down the loan. Almost 24 years later, I am still paying down this loan which is at 8 % and have barely made a dent in it. Meanwhile, I have increased the payments but I can only increase them so much as a teacher, single parent, who is also helping his adult children get through college. I feel like i will be paying this loan forever. When I was in the middle of the divorce in XXXX and the housing market collapsed I had to file for bankruptcy. I asked for some forgiveness of the loan but was denied. Meanwhile, I had to borrow money from friends to survive and interest kept accumulating on these loans. I think this is all very unfair. I will be XXXX by the time this loan is finally paid off, assuming my health stays in tact and I can keep working full time as a teacher. Meanwhile, my hands are tied in trying to help me kids and they are also getting mired in student loans. Please help!"
9224,"Account # XXXX. I recently consolidated my school loans with the Dept of Education ( from Navient ) .There were 2 payments released to Navient. The payments should have been made to the US Dept of Education. Unknowingly, I still submitted those payments to Navient. One of those payments ( {$8.00} ) was processed and transferred accordingly after I faxed over the evidence. It has been weeks since Ive heard anything about the 2nd payment. The payment in question was made on XXXX XXXX, 2016 from an ePayment ( {$170.00} ) with XXXX XXXX. That payment from me seems to be stuck in cyberspace and I am not receiving feedback about this transfer. I faxed over evidence showing proof with still no feedback ..."
2982,"Over the last three years that I 've been in repayment for my student loan, I 've had continual issues with the competency of Fedloan Servicing, the loan servicer that holds my federal loans. On multiple occasions I 've been confronted with issues in their online system, including missing direct debit payments which they 've then tried to charge me late fees for, and without notice increasing the direct debit amount by XXXX dollars when it should not have been increased ( i.e. my monthly amount due has n't changed, they just randomly increased the amount they took out of my account ). Their customer service is rude and unhelpful without fail. All of this has led me to lose all confidence in their ability to service my loans. If these seemingly simple issues are happening, what is happening that I 'm not aware of? If they ca n't do something simple like process a payment correctly, why should I have any confidence that they 're handling more complex things like compounding interest correctly? They are horrible all around and I hope they are seriously investigated."
3288,"I was told that I had to take out loans until my GI BILL started by the schools VA rep. The VA Rep miss handled my paper work for my GI bill and was n't turned in on time. I was told the school was accredited and I could transfer, that was not the case and was forced to finish my schooling. once I graduated I found out that I owed XXXX in student loans, which was the first XXXX that the VA rep never turned in paper work for. After years of going back and forth VA told me they could not go back and pay those loans even if it was school reps fault. By the time I went back to XXXX XXXX the VA rep had been fired and no longer there for the miss handling paper work and they could do nothing to help me at the time."
9177,Contacted someone not even related to me regarding my debt!!!!
3037,"My Federal Perkins Loan was transferred to Heartland ECSI a while ago. I managed to miss a payment at one point, and in addition to the late fee ( totaling a fourth of my monthly payment ) placed on my account, I was charged another {$2.00} for their automatic call system to tell me the payment was late. Nowhere on their website do they list late fees or call fees, and the only place I heard mention of phone call fees was information presented via a computer-generated voice while I was on hold with their customer service after I had already incurred the late, automated call fee. There is a serious lack of transparency from Heartland ECSI."
5577,"I had never been informed of income driven repayment or even a suggestion to talk to my accountant about filing separately from my husband so only my income would be considered. There is no way we can move forward in our life financially with me paying over half of my monthly income towards Navient. He pays all of the normal household bills and I take care of my student loans, however we are unable to apply for a mortgage due to my massive student loan debt taking a large chunk of my income. As a result almost all of my other loan repayments are delinquent or nonexistent. I was also never informed my cosigner could be released. When I would call to try to lower my payment, I was talked into a forbearance and now owe about XXXX additional due to this misguided information."
8277,"I 'm XXXX XXXX XXXX, and the principal on my student loan has doubled the amount I borrowed nearly 25 years ago ( $ XXXX for both XXXX and XXXX ). I 've been paying monthly on-and-off ( between deferments ) for about 16 years, amounts between $ XXXX $ XXXX. I 'll restate : I 've been paying my student loan for 16 years, and none of my payments have gone to the principal of the loan, which, if applied correctly, would have been paid off by now. ( I 've calculated I 've paid nearly $ 40K over the span of 16 years ). 

I had federal loans originally. Then I consolidated with XXXX XXXX. XXXX XXXX gouged me with capital interest, then, when they were having legal troubles, cleverly split their company off to the company I now deal with : Navient. 

For someone like me : XXXX XXXX XXXX, been out of college for 20 years, consistently paid what I could throughout the years, there is no hope of help for me. I have literally just given {$40000.00} of my money away. None of my payments have gone to paying my loan. And I am in more debt than when I started college. I believe when XXXX XXXX approached me when I was XXXX XXXX XXXX, I was the victim of predatory lending practices. All I wanted to do was go to school so I could better myself and get a good job. Now I 'm {$100000.00} in debt. I ca n't even buy a home and it has affected my credit. I net $ XXXX a year. I need to CFPB to help me finally resolve this issue -- call it even. I 've paid them {$40000.00} and there is no end in sight. At this rate, I 'll be XXXX XXXX XXXX and still paying on my student loan!!!! There must be a point when loans are waived -- beyond public forgiveness. Is n't there a XXXX threshold? HELP. I 'm drowning in student loan debt."
2790,"I 've tried to increase my amount for payment with Naviet, which is virtually impossible. I am paying interest upon interest, and have called to her crease my amount which I can not separate towards principal. I have had automatic draft but I can. It change my draft date so it is drafted the same day and thus if it takes 48hrs to post I am then added additional fees that are then capitalized. I 've called to ask to have my draft date changed and they say they can only change to due date not the draft date. It 's unfortunate to have such a deceitful could no any taking advantage of so many college students. This process should not be that difficult, but they make it all most impossible to be able to reduce your debt without any penalties or red tape. I hope this company is investigated for all their corruption."
1100,"Navient refuses to enroll me in the IBR plan. I submitted the required documentation in XX/XX/XXXX ... did not receive a response and then found out today that Navient had been sitting on the required payment documentation since XX/XX/2016. 

My spouse first had her payment cut significantly, and now lost her job. I can not pay my loans at the current rate. Navient REFUSES to allow me to enroll in the IBR plan. They continue to ask me to jump through hoop after hoop. For example, they told me I could upload documents to their website. After filing a CFPB claim in XX/XX/XXXX they told me it had to be faxed in. I assume the same will happen again. 

Please help me force Navient to allow me to enroll in this government mandated option."
6314,"My name is XXXX XXXX. I took out federal and non-federal student loans during XXXX while attending the University XXXX XXXX XXXX. The loan was through Citibank with a total of approximately {$40000.00}. I have made all payments on time and typically paid more than the minimum payment because I was trying to repay back my loans faster. I was able to pay off all my loans by XX/XX/XXXX. It is now XX/XX/XXXX and I 'm trying to get a mortgage. My mortgage lender informs me that Citibank had filed a dispute on my student loan. I had never heard of this before and it was shocking since it 's been a couple of years since I had paid off my loans. I called Citibank and they said that the dispute was filed with the credit agencies because of how my last payment was redistributed. This did n't make any sense. You would think that paying off a student loan would have been a good thing ; not something to file a dispute over. They will be sending me a letter via snail mail which will take 5-7 days for me to receive stating that the dispute is closed and that my loans are all paid off. They can not send me an e-mail or fax to confirm this. They can not overnight me this letter. I 'm most likely not going to be able to meet my mortgage commitment due date because of this, since it is holding up my mortgage application process. I 'm filing a complaint because I was treated unfairly by Citibank and they are not willing to do all they can to help me address the repercussions of their mistake. I would like this to be published so that other consumers are warned and if they did have a student loan with Citibank, it does n't hurt to check if there is an open dispute against them. Especially for those who paid off their loans early and are asking Citibank to redistribute the additional payment towards principal instead of interest, since that is apparently why the dispute was opened in the first place."
5579,"My student loan was transferred to Navient in XXXX XXXX, upon transfer Navient reported my payment at {$84.00} which is incorrect. In XXXX, I paid this amount without paying attention and in XXXX I contacted my previous servicer XXXX to inquire why the amount had increased. They stated I am under income based repayment plan and it should not have changed. The payment amount is {$64.00} and there was a late fee which made the total {$84.00} but it was my option to pay the late fee. I contacted Navient and told them this and was told their website would not allow the amounts to be seperated, I then stated since I paid the {$84.00} there was no longer a late fee and the correct monthly amount should be showing. I was then told that no the extra paid was applied to the loan and not the late fee and this was how it worked for student loans. I have been protesting since. In XXXX, Navient has hiked my payments up and my income based repayment plan is not expired and they are showing late charges in addition to prior. Navient is attempting a form of extortion and refuses to forward my any information."
8865,I have a private loans through Navient that I have n't made any room on the past 6 years. I originally took out XXXX and I currently owe XXXX. I have paid over XXXX on my loans and XXXX has gone towards interest. I am currently paying XXXX % of my salary. I feel like my loans were built up from the original amount and I do n't know why. I had a few of my loans change interest rates from 7 % to 13 %. I am very confused on what is going on. I have contact them about consolidation but was told over the phone that I ca n't do this will private loans. I offered to pay a settlement of XXXX and they refused to speak with me about this. I was told they will find a way to get the remaining back from me. I tried to contact the CEO about this but nothing back from them. I feel like at the age of XXXX when I took out these loans I was taken advantage of and now I am stuck.
3627,"A while ago I called navient to tell them I wanted to increase the amount they took from my bank monthly for my student loan repayment. I wanted {$270.00} taken out instead of the minimum monthly payment. A few years later, I took a new job, and a slight pay decrease, and I called Navient back to reduce what they took from my bank back to the minimum monthly payment. What they did when I called the first time to increase what they took was rewrote my loan so that {$270.00} was the minimum monthly payment. So anything I thought I was paying over the minimum was not used as such. I requested an investigation into this over a year ago and have not heard an single word from them. Is what they did legal?"
4977,"I was not living with my parents at the time. They made my mother XXXX she is from XXXX, a citizen of the XXXX but still an XXXX, she didnt know what she was signing. I needed the money to pay the University XXXX XXXX. I tried to settle multiple times or ask or payment relief, reduction of interest rate. The interest rate is 10 %, once in deferment this loan has now grown to a {$38000.00} balance - initially taking out XXXX. THe only thing I was offered was a quarter percent XXXX .25 % XXXX rate reduction for setting up direct withdrawal. I can not afford the monthly payment yet they will not do anything to help. Ideally I want to refinance this and pay less montly but also at a lower interest rate. At this rate I will never pay off this loan. I should n't be crucified or bullied into high interests because I wanted to get a college degree. It is a shame and I feel it is "" PREDATORY LEDING '' to the XXXX degree. The financial crisis allowed the XXXX industry to get out of their high interest and bad debt - these banks that lend to students target people who need the money to pay for education. What is wrong with this picture? I THINK A LOT!! How can we do this to the next generation of people trying to make something of themselves?? Putting them in an unrealistic financial situation with ABSURD interest rates and will not budge to settle the amounts or give a break on a XXXX interest rate.. PLEASE HELP!!!"
5427,"I was volunteering overseas for several months, when I came back to the states I found that my account was past due. I contacted Sallie Mae inquiring about my repayment options, informing them that I 'm unemployed but trying to find money from relatives to help pay it off. I was also trying to help get access to my account online but they kept insisting that I have to talk to them and would n't help me access my account on the website so I could see my account information. As of this writing the representatives from Sallie Mae have told them there is no way to settle my account, and they did not help me get access to my account on the website. I feel as if they 're preventing me from accessing the information I need to make the best decision for paying my account off."
3665,"I have been placed on REPAY, and was informed that when I made a good faith payment that it had taken care of my payment in order to get my loans in a better payment option. I have been informed by Fedloan ( PHEAA ) now that I have to make another payment of the same amount because my "" good faith '' payment that was already made was satisfying the month previous to the payment, even though I was on a forbearance. This is not the first time that FedLoan has mistakenly informed me of regulations in regards to my loan repayment options. I am not sure that I will actually be forgiven at the end of the PSLF because it seems that they are n't sure of what their supposed to be doing."
3898,I was talked into overbearing my student loans because of being laid off and now my student loan balance has doubled..and on top if that since XXXX changed to Navient my monthly payments have doubled ... i need to get a payment lower so that I can get back in track but not help is being offered but to forebear my loans again and at that rate I will never pay my loans off.
4065,"I was shocked when I reviewed my credit report and found several late payments on my student loans with the dates below : Account Number : XXXX 180 days past due as of XX/XX/XXXX to XX/XX/XXXX 150 days past due as of XX/XX/XXXX 120 days past due as of XX/XX/XXXX 90 days past due as of XXXX XXXX Account Number : XXXX 180 days past due as of XX/XX/XXXX to XX/XX/XXXX 150 days past due as of XX/XX/XXXX 120 days past due as of XXXX XXXX 90 days past due as of XX/XX/XXXX I am not sure how this happened, I believe that I had made my payments to you when I received my statements. My only thought is that this was supposed to be in deferment and it did not get processed correctly or the payments I sent in were not registered."
8678,"Thank you for reviewing my concern. I am the father of XXXX recent college graduates. My concern is with both Naviant and XXXX XXXX Loans and the interest rates and the accrued interest on the student loans I co signed for. 

Part 1 : My XXXX child went to XXXX University in XXXX, XXXX, then transferred to XXXX University XXXX XXXX in XXXX, XXXX. He started college in 2008, and when we filled out the FAFSA, it was determined we did not qualify for very much financial aid and our Federal Loans were minimal. 
One year later, my XXXX child went to XXXX University in XXXX, XXXX. And again, for some reason we did not qualify for very much financial aid and again, we did not qualify for very much in Federal Loans. 
Two years later, my XXXX child went to the XXXX XXXX for one year then transferred to XXXX University XXXX XXXX, and the same result occurred with Financial aid. 

Part 2 : Because we did not receive very much Financial Aide, My wife and I had to co sign onto various private loan organizations to pay these tuitions for XXXX children in college. We applied to many loan organizations and were turned down by some and accepted by others. Basically, we took whatever loans we could sign for so that our kids could go to the colleges of their choice. 

The good news is they have all graduated college, and are working now. 

Where we are now My wife and I are now co signers to over {$400000.00} in private student loans in addition my children have Federal Student Loans they are responsible for. 

The XXXX children have jobs and are starting to pay back some of the student loans. 
The interest rates on the multitude of student loans are between 3 % and 12 % annually. 
The interest expense on these loans is growing tremendously, and in some cases the loans now due are double the amount that we took the loan out because of the interest rates. 
However, the income the children earn is not sufficient to pay off the student loans. 

When I have asked both Naviant and XXXX to ask if they can reduce the interest rates, they deny that they can do this. 

When I have asked if I sell my home to pay off some of these loans, can I just pay off the principal and they forgive the interest. Again, they deny this request. 

Options to go forward : My options to go forward are to continue to try to pay off the student loans the best I can on a monthly basis with the help of the children. But this does not seem to be working as the debt keeps growing and growing even after making payments based on income. 
Or I have read if I default on the student loans for over 3 months, they may be able to renegotiate the terms of the payments. 

My complaint is that for the last 8 years, the prime rate has been very close to 0 % and yet for these student loans many of the interest rates are at or very near double digits. 
I do not see us paying off these loans for maybe 30 years or until XXXX of us dies and we can collect the life insurance. 

Furthermore, sometimes I can not make these monthly payments and late fees are accruing and it is wrecking my and my wife 's credit score. 
Is there some action the CFPB can take to help us with this mess we are in with student loan? 
Thank you for your any assistance you can provide. 

Sincerely, XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX"
779,"I filed my application to change from the XXXX plan to the XXXX program in XXXX 2016. 
I made my payments under the XXXX plan for the following months : XXXX XXXX XXXX For XXXX 's payment, according to the regulations and my application, I received a forbearance until XXXX XXXX, 2016 ( one day prior to XXXX payment being due ). I paid the {$5.00} reduced, forbearance payment. 
I called last week to inquire what the status of the application was and how much my payment would be after the forbearance ended. The person with whom I spoke told me I was still under the standard repayment plan and I would not be in the new plan for another month, which is contrary to my application and the regulations. 
I am still in the dark about whether a payment is due for XXXX and what the amount will be. If no payment is due, I am now off another month from making a payment towards my XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX. 
Please contact me as soon as possible to discuss this matter."
1754,"Please restore standard consumer bankruptcy protection to student loans and make America great again! 

Capitalized interests on student loans is unjust and fraudulent. Congress has allowed corruption to prey on student loans that was formed to help students. Instead it has crippled the economy and forced XXXX former students to lead a lifetime of debt with XXXX in student loan debt. Interest collecting interests. How can it be that my total original loan amount is {$150000.00}. And I paid {$120000.00}. And 10 years later still have a balance of {$180000.00}??"
4623,"I have been making my payments via automatic deposit. I have set it up so that I pay more than what is due. I recently noticed that my account said that my next payment is not due for another XXXX months. I had intended the extra money per month to go towards the principle of the loan. I called Great Lakes and asked them to do this. The customer service lady gave me the run around and eventually told me she could not do that. However, Great lakes website says that I CAN in fact do that and that there is no penalty in doing so. They are charging me interest daily and I tried to explain that I did not want to get charged daily interest on a principle that I was trying to pay down."
3053,"I have a federal student loan through NAVIENT. I have been making payments for the last 3 years without missing a payment. I was offered a lower repayment plan 2 years into my loan which I took, because I was reassured my interest would not be raised and my total loan repayment amount would not increase. Basically a week ago I find out that after 3.5 years of payments towards my original $ XXXX student loan, the loan had decreased ONLY {$250.00} to an updated principal balance of {$25000.00}. AFTER PAYING $ XXXX TO NAVIENT OVER XXXX YEARS MY LOAN BALANCE DECREASED {$250.00}! I called/emailed them to find an explanation, and after multiple attempts to dodge the situation I got in touch with a "" manager ''. She told me that she looked into the recorded phone call I had with them and that I was indeed given wrong information but there was nothing Navient could do about it because of some "" rules and regulations '' document they claimed they mailed me. She said that for the majority of the time of my loan, over 3 years, XXXX % of my payments was going to interest and only XXXX % towards interest. All in all my $ XXXX student loan would take $ XXXX to pay back ( I have this in writing and over a recorded call with Navient ). I told her how unacceptable that is and she said theres nothing she can do because I signed up for the "" graduated payment plan '' even though a Navient employee told me wrong information on it regarding interest/life of loan ( again, she admitted and recognized that I was told my interest would remain the same and that I would be paying the same amount over 10 years just in graduated increments- all of which was completely false ). She said she was sorry about the misrepresentation of the plan but that it was on me. 

Please call me with any questions as I want to help my situation as well as take down this corrupt company."
6587,"I am the cosigner on this loan. Payoff payment was incorrectly applied to multiple loans rather than being applied to a single loan for payoff. Borrower contacted AES about the incorrect payment application and they responded that it would take 7-10 days to correct the misapplied payment. After 10 days the payment was still not correctly applied and the loan, which should have been closed at this point, was still open with a balance and continued reflecting on borrower 's credit report and my credit report. This was after multiple phone calls during the 10 day period in which they assured the borrower that the payment would be properly applied. During borrower 's most recent call the original representative would not transfer him to a supervisor. After being transferred to another representative and waiting, borrower was finally transferred to a supervisor. The supervisor informed borrower that it was not possible for them to immediately apply the payment. AES was not able to correct the misapplied payment and the loan is still showing as outstanding, affecting both the borrower 's and my credit report and score."
8908,"XXXX XXXX. 

When i signed up for the school they promised top of the line class education. I graduated from XXXX School with a XXXX GPA. How can I get XXXX in college. The classes were kindergarden education. After graduation they also promised career placement. I went to several jobs and they were all sales jobs. Nothing to do with XXXX or XXXX. Im still trying to pay these loans."
1747,"I am a non-traditional college graduate and I graduated XX/XX/XXXX. I began making payments to XXXX XXXX XX/XX/XXXX and refinanced to a graduated payment plan with Navient XX/XX/XXXX. In looking at my current statement from Navient, I owe {$60.00} more in principal than I did when I started making payments 2 1/2 years ago. 
This is a FIXED RATE LOAN. Yet, Navient did n't calculate a payment structure sufficient enough to cover the interest, so they add the shortfall to my principal. Blatantly stated, they are cheating their customers and continuing to profit by adding this onto the balance. 
HOW is this legal??"
5768,"I attended XXXX University XXXX for profit school XXXX from XXXX - XXXX. I was pressured into finalizing my enrollment quickly and made promises that were not kept. The only option available was Sallie Mae XXXX XXXX Loans, I was given no other options. I now have over XXXX in private loans on my credit and my XXXX year-old mother co-signed the loans, so she is liable, as well. We have been harassed for years by agressive collectors who call our houses and our cell phones, and have received collection letters demanding payment in full. I am praying that someone can help me with a solution because these colleges have been preying on innocent people for too long. I am now working in a position that only pays $ XXXX per year because I ca n't find a good job without an education and I have been unsuccessful in my attempts to qualify for further financial assistance to complete my studies. Please help me if at all possible. 

Thank you."
5824,"I was in the generation of kids who were told that getting college degrees would open the door to great paying jobs, so rack up all the student debt it takes cuz you can pay it off easily after you sort through your job offers. 
Maybe there was even a time that was true, but although the unpaid internship market is through the roof, the job market is XXXX and my degrees are not competitive. I tried so hard for so long ( 2.5 years ) to get work in my field while scrounging on XXXX, trying to land any job in any field, usually part time and/or seasonal. When offered a full time year round position, albeit for $ XXXX/hour XXXX hours/week, I took it and have given up on trying to get work in my field. 
I have about $ 300K in loans. My federal loans are fine because Income Based Repayment brings them down to $ XXXX/month- even though Navient tries their hardest to obscure that it 's an option, and wo n't even, insofar as I can tell, tell you how to apply for it. The bulk of the loans, however, are private Navient loans, and recourse is practically nonexistent. I ran up my forbearance time while un ( der ) employed ( paying {$150.00} each time- paying money to not pay money so I ultimately pay them more money? ), and then they set it to interest only payments, which still works out to over 100 % of my income. Every payment I 've ever made has been to reduce my delinquency. Now they 're saying that interest-only payments is another thing that runs out and soon they 're going to ask me for EVEN MORE money- presumably 200+ % of my paltry income. It 's not that I 'm unwilling to pay- I 've been trying to pay like 20+ % of my pathetic income toward it, occasionally jeopardizing my ability to pay for food, but at this point I think the smartest option would be just to let it go into collection cuz Massachusetts will only let them garnish 15 % of my wages."
5468,I am a coborrower for my son who got XXXX loans from XXXX XXXX more then 10 years ago. The loans were originally a pretty small amount but with forebearance and deferments that are very high now. We were never told that interest would go up nor were we told that interest would continue to accumulate during these times. We tried numerous times to get the loans consolidated and were told that is n't possible. I also asked to have my name removed from the loans and was told that was n't possible either. A few months ago I filed paperwork to get my name off the loans because I am now XXXX Veteran and I 'm now on XXXX I was told it would n't be possible but I have yet to receive any paperwork in the mail stating such. I 've have tried on many occasions to work with the loan company to get payments that my son could afford but we were told that is not a possibility they would only accept the over {$400.00} plus dollars a month and nothing else. We paid them money on a few occasions to place the loan in forebearance. I 'm very frustrated as this has affected my credit over the years and I do n't blame my son as he was unable to repay the money but wanted to work with them.
9570,"ACS is conducting substandard, if not illegal, loan practices. Their website lacks key information about my private student loans, such as the original loan amount. They do not offer a service to allow borrowers to increase their monthly payment amounts. I took out my loans from XXXX XXXX, which worked fine for me through law school. I believe ACS is intentionally obscuring their contact information on their website, does not allow borrowers to speak with a representative in the U.S. without at least a 30 minute wait period ( first requiring the borrower to go through a confusing automated recording that does not have an option to speak to a live person, then sending you through to someone XXXX ), and is preventing borrowers from actively controlling their student loan debt. When I finally spoke to a representative, she told me they were not legally required to provide payment plan information. I was told that if I wanted to increase my student loan payments, to send an email to an anonymous address. I asked if there was a specific person I could speak to about handling my loan repayment, she said "" no. '' My email would go to "" another department '' that she did not have contact with. I do not understand how this is an acceptable practice. Given the opacity, I have very little idea of what they 're actually doing with my loans. I have researched complaints on ACS and given the volume of posts on various websites by students of all backgrounds, I can not imagine how the practices at ACS are legal."
1511,"I has a several student loans held by Sallie Mae. These loans were transferred to XXXX. I was never in default or had a missed payment. https : //myeddebt.ed.gov/ has confirmed this and so has the Dept. of Education. I consolidated my loans, then my loans got transferred to XXXX. XXXX is incorrectly reporting that I was 60/90/120 days late. This is incorrect, I was in school, my payment were deferred and in forbearance. Before Sallie Mae received this loans, XXXX originally held them. However, XXXX still will not remove the incorrect reporting."
7581,"My father has been dead for XXXX years and was removed off the loan while XXXX XXXX was servicing it. Now I have Navient calling AND adding his name BACK on the accounts. I have been thru all of this with XXXX XXXX firm over a XXXX They ( Navient currently ) threatened me with seizure of property, that they would NEVER stop calling. I sent a cease and desist letter certified and already received, advising no contact BUT regular mail and Im still getting emails. I also requested proof of debt that I have yet to receive. Still less than 30 days though."
5280,"The interest from my student loan keeps building adding more interest and they wo n't set up payment plan 's with me to pay it. They demand all the money up front because I did n't pay it immediately so now I 'm in collection with the debt company and they keep harassing my phone sending me mail notices demanding payment but refuse to allow me to pay payments at my convenience when I have the funding. The customer service is aggressive, intimidating and unprofessional. I want them to clear off half of my loan and allow payments to be set up appropriately until paid in full. The amount the loan started from is what I want to pay and nothing extra."
2111,"I was reported 90 days past due on my student loan, I have never been late. I never received a written communication letting me know there was an issue with my payment. I was under the impression that it is a requirement for the Student Loan Servicing companies to communicate in writing with the borrowers regarding their loans."
1253,"I am trying to set up a repayment plan based upon my discretionary income and the amount is still much, much too large. I am being asked to pay {$1400.00} per month. This would be in addition to my monthly mortgage of {$2200.00} per month. Student loan repayments of this amount are unsustainable. I can pay about {$450.00} to {$500.00} per month, that 's it. I can not seem to get speak with a human being to negotiate a payment that is reasonable for my family budget. Can you help me with this? Everything in electronic via a website link or e-mail. No human being with decision making authority are available to speak to me about this. Please help. 

My phone number is XXXX, Thank you."
4357,"My federal Pell grant loan is in an income based repayment schedule, however the company servicing the loan keeps losing my income statement forcing me to continue making regular payments or pushing a forebearance which keeps pushing the payment amounts up. Every time I submit an income statement to the company, the application is received but then lost by another department that the company can not contact through any means of communication. I literally glued my last income statement to the most recent application and though they received my application, it was again lost ( the whole application this time ) and so they needed another income statement. I tried using their document upload on their website, but the terms of use agreement required consenting to so many abusive agreements, like using only a web-browser they support, authorizing parties to generate loan documents using my signature on file, installing products furnished by third-parties, the company may use data for other services, consent to the disclosure of my non-public personal information by the company to its unaffiliated third party service providers for purposes of marketing to me products and services offered by the family of companies, that I consent I will, at my own expense, be responsible for acquiring and maintaining all equipment, software and communication access necessary for me to use the website, that the company reserves the right to modify or discontinue, temporarily or permanently, the terms of service for any reason, at its sole discretion, with or without notice to me. I agree that the company likewise may change the terms and conditions of the terms of service from time to time with or without notice to me and any amendment shall be effective immediately with or without notice. 
So I do n't feel comfortable agreeing to abide by such abuse terms of service. But the company is not holding itself accountable for losing my income statements to make fair payments on my loans. Now, the company reclassified XXXX % of my loans into private loans somehow and sent that percentage to a collection company. I have been asking for weeks for any kind of documentation from the collection company, and as result the company would hang-up. Literally, they wanted me to send a money-order or cashier 's check to a PO box for nearly {$3000.00} or give them my account information over the phone, and when I stated I just needed a document that demonstrates this payment is to resolve a student loan they 'd hang up! I finally got a 'manager ' from the collection company on the phone who stated they would send a document, only if I agreed to pay the loan by a deadline. I stated it would likely take several months or more depending on other relevant financial issues ( I am currently unemployed, and only member of the household able to generate an income ) the 'manager ' stated that over {$2000.00} was required by the end of the month for them to send any documentation concerning the collection! It seemed utterly unrealistic! I 'm just trying to get documentation from a collection company about a loan I 'm willing to repay when I get employed, even trying to get onto a income based repayment plan, and neither company servicing the loan is interested in adequately assisting in fulfilling reasonable requests to make the process possible! One company is losing documents mailed in, even stating they were received but subsequently lost or misplaced. The other finally sent me a document concerning collection after weeks of asking, I received it on XX/XX/XXXX and they want {$2000.00} by XX/XX/XXXX including {$170.00} in 'collections costs '. All I 've ever done is requested documentation this debt was being applied to student loans and they 're charging me {$170.00} for that! How am I supposed to come up with over {$2000.00} in 10 days!?! This does n't seem to be a fair way to handle servicing of student loans!"
8124,"With the previous assistance of the CFPB, Navient agreed to allow me to enter into a repayment plan at a lower interest rate with lower monthly payments due to economic hardship. My economic hardships resulted from being unemployed and no offers on the table at that time. The repayment plan was that I was to pay {$340.00} per for the next year at 1 %. If at any time I did not make a payment on time Navient had the option to remove me from the payment plan. The payments were to be automatically deducted on the XXXX of each month. The first payment was due XXXX, 2015 and the funds were taken out XXXX XXXX, 2015. The second payment was due XXXX XXXX and the funds were taken out on XXXX XXXX, 2015. The XXXX pay, likewise, were due on the XXXX but this time they were not automatically deducted from my account on XXXX XXXX, 2015. When I contacted Navient I was told that I had defaulted on my account and that I no longer had a payment agreement with them. 
At first I thought it might have been a error on my credit union 's account because the funds were in my checking account and available for withdrawal. I explained to the representative that it had to be a banking error because the funds were there. He stated to me that that did not matter and that my repayment plan was now void since Navient had not been paid on time regardless of whose fault it was ; since it was a new month and I had not notified them by the last day in XXXX. He also stated that I maybe be able to get into a new repayment plan but it would be more than my original plan. I notified my financial institution of what had happened because of the error with my account. It was then that it was brought to my attention that Navient had not attempted to withdraw any funds from my account on XXXX XXXX, 2015 per our agreement. After checking my account statement I checked my Navient account. Under the correspondence there are two documents stating that I am delinquent on my loans. The are dated before the XXXX loan installment was due. I did receive a message stating that if I do n't enter into a different payment plan or pay the past due amount this month my account would be placed into bankruptcy."
417,"My monthly payment amount changed on at least two separate occasions, one of which I was not sent prior notification of the change. I was sent correspondence on XXXX/XXXX/XXXX that notified me that my new monthly payment increased to {$1100.00} after review of my loans. I made the aforementioned payment for the month of XXXX XXXX. However, I recently reviewed my loan status and the new monthly payment was now {$1200.00} which is due in XXXX XXXX. I was not sent prior notification of the new monthly payment amount. I contacted the loan servicer and was informed that they will send it to their account department for review. This is not the first time that a change in my monthly payment has occurred without prior notification. Another incident like this occurred last XXXX XXXX and there was no change in interest rates nor do I have any delinquent loans. I currently have an extended repayment plan which should not have variability in payment amounts unless changes were made, which I did not make any changes in XXXX and there were no interest rate changes in any of my loans. I am very concerned about these sudden changes in loan payment amounts without adequate explanation by Navient."
4236,I was given out loans that I would never be able to repay based on my earning potential. All information when trying to rectify the loans was misleading and they would n't help with lowering the costs. I receive countless threats and phone calls about garnished wages daily.
9891,"I am receiving between 5-10 calls a day at all times of day and night, during work hours, at night during dinner time, weekends, on XXXX during church service. When trying to communicate with callers, I am shamed or blamed for preexisting & new medical issues and confitions that prevent me from working and having a steady income."
130,"I have repeatedly attempted to request that all of my federal loan groups be placed under the income based repayment plan. I have submitted my application for this XXXX separate times. Nelnet has communicated false information to me over the phone on over XXXX occasions causing the delay of this change taking place and causing me to have to use up to three months of hardship forbearance which I should not have had to use at all since I qualify for $ 0 monthly payments at this time due to my family 's very low income. Nelnet has claimed that they would put my loan on administrative forbearance twice since it was their error. These claims were untrue and I received calls from them weeks later stating that their representative was wrong and I do not qualify for administrative forbearance. When they call they ask for payment for the loans which become past due since they never placed the administrative forbearance on the loan that they promised to place on it. The representatives largely refuse to give me their last name, their employee ID number and anything in writing that states the promises that they make to me over the phone about the steps they are taking to get my loans on the right track. They have also coerced me into putting my loans on hardship forbearance, of which I only have a limited amount, and then denied me the opportunity to place those loans on an income based repayment plan because the loans were already on hardship forbearance. Then once the forbearance runs out they state that I owe on the loans, that I must reapply for the income based repayment plan and that if I ca n't pay the amount due then my only choice is to put them on hardship forbearance again. I 've been dealing with this issue for over 6 months and find that their staff is largely incompetent and untrustworthy. I hope to find a way to, in the future, have an agency that is reliable and trustworthy manage my loans even if that means a higher interest rate and consolidation. Nelnet 's practices are harmful to consumers and the overall feeling is like you are in the twilight zone. It seems that their departments do not know what each other are doing and that the staff that consumers can reach over the phone have had extremely unsatisfactory training in how to do their job. The root of the problem seems to be either poor training or willful deception of consumers that have little to no opportunity for recourse since documentation of the calls is not provided to the consumers and when I request documentation they state they are not allowed to provide anything to me. I feel trapped and miserable dealing with this company and disappointed that the Federal Government allows them to manage student loans. I did not choose NelNet and it seems extraordinarily unfair to have to bear the burden of their continuous mistakes and misleading information."
1608,Hard for me to repay too many fees and federal taking all my taxes
9763,"I borrowed {$10000.00} from the XXXX ( XXXX ) in XXXX and in XXXX. After taking their finance charges and interest rate up front ( {$140000.00} ) the actual monetary value that I received was {$8600.00} for each year, {$8400.00} of which went to pay my XXXX XXXX tuition for each of those two years. For a total Principal of {$17000.00}, I paid XXXX $ XXXX {$30000.00}. 

I asked XXXX on many occasions to send me a statement stating that my Loan had been retired. I never got any response back from them. Years passed until one day, I received a call from a debt collector purporting to represent XXXX in their attempt to collect an outstanding {$30000.00} debt that reportedly owed. Of course I disputed this and sent them documentations of payment I sent the Agency over they years. I never heard from that particular Debt Collection Agency or XXXX again, except every few years, another debt Collecting Agency purporting to rep rent XXXX will resurface and we will go through the same thing again. 

In XXXX this year ( XXXX ), up until the present ( XXXX/XXXX/XXXX ), I started receiving a barrage of harassing and threatening phone calls at all hours of the day, sometimes as late as XXXX ; on weekdays and on weekends. They would call one of my Mobil Phones by the hour-it got to be so annoying that I decided not to recharge the battery when it died down and instead started using my second Mobil Phone which is unlisted. I have blocked the multiple different numbers that they use only for them invent another phone number. They have so many deferent phone numbers- more numerous than the XXXX so it was futile on my part to try to keep blocking these numbers. Somehow, they got my work phone number and has been calling my practice non-stop and disrupting my daily clinic activities when I am caring for my patients. Despite my telling them to cease and desist, these threatening and harassing phone calls continue unabated. The calls have been relentless. 

Even though, I told them the debt has been completely paid off and I do not owe any debt, they threaten to sue and take my property. They have gone as far as fictitiously conjuring a figure of {$130000.00} out of thin air as the debt that I owe. To make good on their threats, they have referred this non existent bogus debt to an attorney who in tandem with Transworld Systems Inc. continue to threaten and harass me and my family. They left a message with my wife to call them urgently to discuss the {$130000.00} phantom debt or else they will take legal action against me. 

Despite telling them about the history of the XXXX Loan and letting them know in no uncertain terms that I have paid the debt in full, the harassing and threatening phone calls continue unabated. 

Sincerely,"
8449,"This was a private loan that was attained for school. The loan was initially a private student loan with XXXX XXXX. The loan was all of a sudden sold off to Navient. The amount of the loan was never confirmed. After the loan was transferred, Navient requested a full payment of a loan in the amount of over {$15000.00}. After speaking with customer service representatives on several occasions, it was determined that a payment amount of about {$600.00} would be needed, even though I was not working at the time."
6957,"Hi, I wrote a certified letter to Navient telling them to no longer contact me, or anyone else associated with my student loans, by phone and that they needed to send all information to me by mail. They did that for a while but I recently fell a little behind on my loans and they started up the calls again from a very unknown number. They also called my father, who is a co-signer on XXXX loan. They called an spoke with him and, of coure, were very rude on the phone. He is a retired veteran and does n't need that kind of XXXX. Not only did I send a certified letter but I have reminded them on multiple occasions that they are not allowed to call him or myself that they need to send everything in writing. They harass their borrowers and that is why I do not want to speak over the phone. I was told by a Navient representative that that does n't apply to them, that they are allowed to call me. Is this correct? How are they able to harass my father and I whenever they want?"
4686,"Navient bought a former private student loan that I had with XXXX XXXX. Navient is trying to get me to pay way more than I actually own on this debt. My XXXX balance is now XXXX. How is that possible? Navient now wants me to enter into a 16 year contract to pay off this new balance. In addition, Navient used XXXX different collection companies to harass me by calling me at my job."
6950,"In XXXX I completed my XXXX XXXX XXXX and in XXXX I completed my XXXX XXXX XXXX from XXXX University. In XXXX my husband and I were forced to file bankruptcy due to insurmountable amount of medical bills. 

Since this time, I have been diagnosed with an XXXX which has also caused several other sometimes XXXX conditions. Since XXXX I have had eight XXXX. 

It is very much a hardship on me to maintain daily living expenses, care for a family which consist of my husband and our XXXX year old son, pay medical bills and pay over XXXX XXXX XXXX ( {$400.00} ) a month in student loans. 

Navient has called my father, ( co-signer for private loan ) and I several times with what seems like no understanding, demanding a payment be made. In XXXX XXXX my Grandmother was in the XXXX in XXXX, Georgia. My father received a call from a Navient representative, he explained the situation with my Grandmother and they were persistent in wanting more details about which form of payment he would be using and when a payment could be made. My Father hung up the phone due to the attitude and demanding payment information. My Grandmother passed away the next day due to a XXXX. 

Please consider this very challenging hardship. 

Thank-you for your time and consideration. Should you have any further questions or need any additional information, please do not hesitate to contact me."
3408,"I graduated in XXXX after getting an XXXX from XXXX I married directly out of college, had a son and was a stay at home mom while my husband worked. We divorced in XXXX and I sought work out of the home to take care of my son. In XXXX I filed for Chapter XXXX because I was unable to pay my bills and take care of my household all at the same time. During the proceedings a representative from some student loan institute said they would not forgive my loan but they could re-work the payments ( even though during the year I filed they were forgiving student loans ). I have never defaulted on my loan but now I am starting to feel overwhelmed because this debt that started out at around {$35000.00} when I graduated in XXXX, is now almost {$150000.00}. I am almost XXXX XXXX XXXX and based off my income they have set my payment at a zero dollar monthly payment. I do n't know how I will ever pay a loan off on my income and based off a zero dollar payment. I have spoken to several representatives about how to get my loan down and all they recommend is working XXXX jobs. Wow what advice. I have applied for XXXX jobs, for government jobs and even the XXXX. None of which have been successful. I feel like there is no light at the end of the tunnel. Are there other alternatives? What can I do to pay down this loan? I am not running from my responsibility but it seems like my financial obligation has tripled as a result of me not being able to secure employment paying me a high enough wage to keep up with payments."
4457,"I am on an income based repayment plan with Navient and it was up for renewal in XX/XX/XXXX. On at least two occasions prior, I contacted Navient concerning this upcoming renewal and was told, as earlier as XX/XX/XXXX or XX/XX/XXXX, that I had to call in XX/XX/XXXX each time. At one point, I was given instructions and a payment that later proved to be incorrect to the point that I could have violated a law following them. I called in XX/XX/XXXX to renew the plan and was chewed out by the representative for not calling sooner. I sent the required paperwork via fax in XX/XX/XXXX to renew the plan. I go on today and see the payment is not income based and they claim that I never sent the paperwork in. Navient believes they can abuse and play games with customers because they have laws that guarantee that customers are forced to pay them no matter what. I am at my wit 's end with Navient and the fact I can not get consistent answers or solutions to whatever I need done concerning my loans. I want to pay them off, but I need the income based plans and I am sick of playing games with them and this "" one hand not knowing what the other does ''."
8297,"For the second consecutive month, Sallie Mae has incorrectly and falsely reported my payment status to the credit bureaus that they report to."
6830,"I attended XXXX XXXX XXXX from XX/XX/XXXX to XX/XX/XXXX and successfully graduated with a XXXX. My Private loans went through XXXX XXXX, who has since changed names to Navient due to another Class action lawsuit. Needless to say the Customer Service and loan tactics have not changed. 

I have XXXX Private loans with them, XXXX of which are cosigned by my parents who are both on fixed incomes due to retirement. All XXXX loans were in some form of Forbearance due to me not finding a job within the field of study I have the XXXX in for a number of years and not making enough to pay the balances owed along with regular living expenses. the Forbearance periods I have been told are not available now, apparently there are restraints on how long a loan can be in forbearance regardless of your financial situation. Until the company name change they have refewsed to try and work out a feasible repayment plan, although, at this time, we were able to agree on an Income Contingent program, although for some unexplained reason, the XXXX cosigned loans are not eligible and every program I 've requested about has resulted in there management department ( what ever they care to call it ) causing those loans to be listed as late or delinquent even though they are on a monthly automatic draft payment that they setup and agreed too. Now that the College I attended is no longer an establishment, and the loans were obviously predatory as to this day I still cant afford the approximate {$700.00} a month the payment would be if not on the IC program. Is a portion of this, if not all of it forfeit and charged off due to the predatory nature of the loan?"
3021,"For many years i have been paying a fixed amount monthly for student loans. Recently Navient, the loan servicer, reduced the amount by approximately {$50.00} each month. Prior to the random decrease from {$590.00} to {$550.00} the amount applied monthly to principle was more than that applied to interest. After the $ 50 monthly payment decrease i am now paying more interest monthly than principle. I did not request or ask for a change in monthly amount nor was i informed of the change. There is no explanation for these actions except to extend time the loan will be in repayment. This complaint is in regards to the actions describe above and to shed light on this practice."
2193,"I graduated in XX/XX/XXXX and consolidated my loans with XXXX XXXX. In XX/XX/XXXX I started working for The City of XXXX as a XXXX. In XX/XX/XXXX XXXX XXXX passed a loan forgiveness program for public servants such as Firefighters and Police officers. The program worked if you made 120 consecutive payments without missing one payment, in exchange for the increased risk I face daily at my job serving the public. Once this was passed I spoke with XXXX XXXX to make sure I was on the right track, which they assured me I was. Several years ago XXXX XXXX became Navient and sent me a letter that nothing would change on my end. It is now XX/XX/XXXX and I have not missed a single payment. My bank recently changed and I wanted to follow up with Navient to make sure my payments would not be interrupted, disqualifying my loan forgiveness. They notified me that I have the wrong "" type '' of loan and that I would not be eligible. This is wrong and unacceptable. I am writing this to ask for your assistance."
5491,The allowance of easy deferment after 10 years my original loans were at about XXXX now are at XXXX. Financially devastating to make XXXX month payments. Please help me understand what options I have for resolution
5942,"I attended XXXX XXXX University for XXXX classes, then transferred to XXXX University due to my inability to get XXXX services to correct an issue submitting assignments. Now after withdrawing from this ( for profit ) school, they are saying that I owe them for the full tuition amount. This is negatively affecting my credit rating and impeding my ability to acquire housing and employment. I am XXXX and currently unemployed and homeless and unable to pay {$5.00}, XXXX full-tuition fee."
7602,Navient called an ex boyfriend from 8 years ago and left him a voicemail with my name and that I was late on my payment. His contact information is not linked to my account and never was. I feel as if this is harassment.
2002,"Between the years XXXX, I was persuaded by my loan servicer, Navient, to either use forebearance or deferment as a method to postpone payments I could not afford rather than reducing my payments or offering me income-based repayments."
7833,"My complaint echo 's the suit being filed against Navient. Any time I have reached out to Navient, they have n't assisted me with lowering my payment. I also have tried to reach out to them and pay a lower amount monthly which they have declined multiple times. Recently, the company automatically put my loans in forbearance without my permission. Also, when I fell behind on payments they would constantly harass my co-signer. They would call as early as XXXX, about 7 times a day."
2819,"My Name is XXXX XXXX, Navient has been taking care of my loans. After having issues making the payments that they were asking of me which are $ XXXX monthly. I 'm a single father of XXXX there 's no way that I could pay this amount. They did n't provide me any other choices. They also lied to me various of times. if my payment would be around XXXX I would be able to pay but they are not willing to work me, because of this my loan my default. This will ruin my life. I wanted to know how I could be part of the Lawsuit."
1395,"I am a new customer with navient and have applied for consolidation of my student loans, as well as help with my payments lowered ... .I am not seeing any help with them telling me that they could assist me with lowering payments ... I am a single mother of XXXX just getting out of default..please help.."
3335,Im harrassed with phone calls and unrelenless amouts of mail concerning student loans im not able to pay. Due to my XXXX from Honorable service in the XXXX im unable to work an stable job currently while recieving limited unearned income from Veterans XXXX. Its a shame that the creditors cant recieve payment at this moment for student loans that furthered my education and im not even able to use the education to my advantage to earn the income needed. This doesnt mean that they should hassle me and im unable to make payments or even consolidate my credit in this day or hour.
3388,"I have been stuck in an interest loop with Navient for 2 years ( I started paying on my large loans after consolidating them through XXXX XXXX, which then turned into Navient ). My accrued forbearance interest is XXXX, ( this accumulated because I did not have the money to start making payments on my loans when I graduated at first, XXXX was my servicer at the time and they claimed putting it in forbearance would be appropriate because I could n't make less than a XXXX $ monthly payment, there were no repayment options for me at that time. ). Now I am gaining daily interest on my principal balance which is around XXXX, where in my "" repayment plan '' payment is barely covering the XXXX accrued interest on my principal balance. I am making no HEADWAY on my principal balance or my forbearance interest. I have around a total of XXXX in student debt, and it says my term is 140 years??"
3425,"I have never missed a payment on my student loans, and have always used the income based repayment plan option. This past year I got married and filed taxes with my husband. We DO NOT share a bank account and for the most part do not share money as we have divvied up our monthly bills. He pays electric, cable, his car insurance, pet insurance, and home security system. I pay our mortgage, student loans, car payment, jewelry and car insurance. 

This year when I went to renew my income based repayment plan, they told me that since I filed taxes with my husband, that now I have too much income to qualify for that plan. Fine. What are my options? I was told a different thing from 3 different customer service representatives. One of whom suggested I go into forbearance for a month until they are able to transition me into a plan that is going to be XXXX dollars more for me a month. I pride myself in not missing any payments of any sort. I could not believe they were telling me this. The other 2 were helpful, however they kept keeling me to call back in XX/XX/XXXX which made me miss the XX/XX/XXXX deadline of signing up for a payment plan. Again, could n't believe they were telling me to call after the deadline. 

I was also under the impression that if you were in an income-based repayment plan, that your student loan would be forgiven after 25 years. I have already been paying my loan for 4 years, but with the new payment plan I was told I would have almost 27 more years of payments on top of all the years I have been making payments. I will be XXXX years old. 

To top everything off, I got my student loan interest tax form in the meal, and I am only paying off interest at this point! I am making no dent whatsoever in the balance of my loans. I am making over {$300.00} in payments a month ... that 's not exactly XXXX ... I feel like it should go directly towards the balance. Why is the interest rate so high??? Its killing me! 

My student loan payment is the only reason we are waiting to have kids. We make XXXX take home pay every year, which should be enough money to start a family, but this student loan is causing me to put my life on hold. I feel such desperation. I am working in the file that I studied in college, so my education is going to use ... Just wish I would have known all this when I was XXXX and applying for these loans."
7909,"I have XXXX loans ( we 'll call them the "" XXXX '' and "" XXXX '' loans ) with Sallie Mae currently- they 're under the same account, but for XXXX different school years. The XXXX loans have their own cosigners, XXXX who have been making monthly payments on their respective loans. We do not use Sallie Mae 's automatic Bill Pay option, as the cosigners would rather have control of the flow of payments through their own banks. 

Over the past several months, whenever a check was sent to Sallie Mae to pay for the XXXX loan, it was always allocated to the XXXX loan, instead. As a result, my XXXX cosigner and I were notified that a payment was overdue. I 've called them many times over the past months to reallocate these payments, and it would take days for the changes to take effect. Often in the meantime, it meant that a late fee would be charged to the account, never mind that the payment had actually been received. 

In late XXXX, I had come to find out this had happened again when Sallie Mae was asking for the upcoming XXXX payment. I called Sallie Mae to figure out what was going on and reassign payments ( again! ). I had then found out that the XXXX loan has an overflow account- money that was sent to pay for the XXXX loan that has exceeded the scheduled payments due. I then asked that enough money be taken out of the overflow account to pay for any outstanding payments ( XXXX and XXXX payments ) for the XXXX loan, and I was told it would be done. 

Two weeks later, I was still receiving notices of overdue payments. Calling them back ( AGAIN! ), I 'd found out that the "" work order did n't go through '' - they could n't tell me why. I asked them to start over, once again taking enough money out of the XXXX overflow account to pay for any outstanding payments XXXX XXXX and XXXX payments ) for the XXXX loan, and they said they would do it. For the next ten days, the balance due on the XXXX loan kept fluctuating- I was told this was to be expected because of the work order. 

I have just finished looking at my loan summary on Sallie Mae 's website ( it is now the beginning of XXXX ), and have been told that, alongside the payment due for XXXX, there is still (!? ) a past due amount on the XXXX loan- and I have once again been charged a late fee. 

I do n't understand what 's going on with this loan anymore. Over the past several months, every time I 've called, each representative gave me different answers to the same questions. I 'm pretty sure at one point, a supervisor outright lied to me about the details of my account ( a representative 's description of my account did not match the supervisor 's, despite them reading the same notes left on my account ). I am still in school, in a very work-intensive program, and do not have the time nor energy to keep playing this game with Sallie Mae. Goodness knows how this affects my credit score, or the credit scores of my cosigners! This has gotten beyond ridiculous."
3173,I had defaulted on my federal student loans services by XXXX XXXX due to the large monthly payment. My Loan went to a collection agency who I worked with to rehabilitate a loan. During the rehabilitation I attempted to negotiate a lower full payoff of my loan which XXXX XXXX countered twice. During the third round of negotiations my loan was fully rehabilitated and sold to Navient ( Still XXXX XXXX ). The monthly payment jumped up over a XXXX per month which wa was the reason I defaulted in the first place. I attempted to continue discussions with them concerning a full pay off and they have now stated that since my loan has been rehabilitated they are no longer willing to negotiate with me as I am now obligated for the full amount after the rehabilitation.
4642,"I started my ordeal of repaying private loans in XX/XX/XXXX. I had the loans in deferment after graduating in XX/XX/XXXX. I called repeatedly to find a payment method that would work as the loans required payments of {$1600.00}, which is well over my take home pay each month, even with working 40+ hours a week. They told me there was nothing they could do to help me because, "" You have n't missed any payments yet. '' Well due to life long medical issues and XXXX I was medically XXXX for a few months and then of course I had no choice but to start missing payments as I could not afford them anyway. So, I did n't pay and waited for the battering of calls that were excessive and aggressive, calling my family members that were in no way related to my loans and I 'm not even sure how they got their information. I listened to the voice mails and called them back repeatedly trying to find a lower payment or some solution. However when they finally offered me a plan, a year later in XX/XX/XXXX, that required only {$350.00} a month, I 'm sure for the next 500 years, I asked if I could receive the proposal in the mail or PDF in order to read what I was agreeing to prior to giving away bank account information. I was forwarded to a supervisor who cursed me out and told me she never heard of something so absurd as wanting the documentation prior to signing up for the plan because, "" It is your obligation to make the payments, we do n't have to offer you any assistance then the whole loan balance will be due. '' Well feeling beaten down and very confused as to why my rights to read what I 'm agreeing to before I sign up were being taken away I am reaching out to you at the CFPB to help shed some light on this and warn others from going anywhere near XXXX/Navient."
5654,"My private student loan is through CitiBank, Citi Assist loan. XX/XX/2016, the interest rate went up on my student loan by .25 %. That is fine. BUT, my payment more then doubled. I went from paying {$130.00} a month with a 4.25 % interest to {$320.00} with a 4.50 % interest rate. This seems WRONG correct? They were not helpful. They suggested I do a direct debit to reduce my interest down .25 %. So I did. My interest went back down to 4.25 % ( my original interest ) and now my payments are {$130.00}. So basically I am getting screwed by them because none of this makes sense. I firmly believe this new payment of {$130.00} is WHAT I should have been paying with the interest increase. They tried to double talk me when I asked about my new payments after the interest hike and they were not helpful and did n't do anything. I am very scared about the next interest increase and what they will come up with for my payments."
4176,I am currently going through hardship and can not pay this loan.
6073,"This is regarding a private school loan through XXXX. It was then transferred by XXXX to American Education Services ( AES ). There are numerous problems with this company. They are jacking up the loan I co-signed for by separating out the huge interest amount. When asked why is my balance not decreasing ( paying regularly for years now ), I was told "" Payments are applied first to outstanding accrued interest and late fee 's, and any remaining amount is applied to the principal balance. If the outstanding late fee 's and interest exceed the amount of your payment, none of the payment will be applied to the principal balance. '' The amount of my loan is going up because of the way that they charge a separate fee for interest. They make it difficult to even see what the interest rate is. What it basically means is that I am never going to be able to pay off this loan that I co-signed on. I can not afford their monthly charges ( it is more than XXXX ). If i just pay the required amount including interest, the amount goes up rather than down. They offer no alternatives for repayment and are not willing to negotiate. I looked online and there are thousands of complaints about this company. Surely the government can do something to help those of us who are trying to pay off our debt but are being held prisoner by this ruthless company. I am the co-signer. My son took out the loan in 2008 and he is unemployed now."
9353,XXXX XXXX was purchased by Navient. Navient shows non payment but we have canceled checks dating back years. We 've sent the copies of the checks and they still keep calling. It 's as if they are not communicating that we 've resolved this issue with 5 different customer service representatives. They call up to eight times a day every day. The numbers they call from are : XXXX XXXX XXXX
8664,"When I first went to XXXX XXXX in XXXX, MA, they had told me how they would place me in a job in that field. I completed in XXXX with a XXXX. That never helped me in obtaining a secure employment in that field. I ended up working for temp angencies. Then I became XXXX in XXXX and have been out of work since. My loans were through Sally Mae. They have been taking money out of my benefits since XXXX. I 'm should be getting $ XXXX mth but I actually only receive $ XXXX mth. I 'm a single parent trying to find a way to get back to work but it has been hard with my XXXX. I also tried to go back to the XXXX XXXX for my XXXX because they told me that they were now accredited and I would be able to transfer credits to XXXX XXXX XXXX. I went for about two weeks and just could n't make it to classes because of my XXXX. When I went to tell them this and needed to drop out. I was told that I would still have to pay. I am barely making ends meet with the income that I receive, I do n't need these loans huvering over my head. Especially when I 'm trying to get my credit straight as well. I want my loans to be Discharged."
5134,"I have been paying toward my private loan since 2009. I was falsely denied a lower payment open, even when I was unemployed. The representatives over the years have increased my payments, despite ability to pay, and refused to offer any help other than telling me to deal with the collections department. Once collections began, I was given no payment options other than forbearance, and despite my pleas for help in at least a low monthly payment, they would not accept any option other than to keep being in default or going into forbearance ( again ). I was never informed at the time of signing up for loans that my balance would continue to increase despite monthly payments and good faith attempts to pay, when full payments were not possible. My cosigner and I have been threatened with ruining our credit unless the full payments were made immediately. My balance has increased since changing to Navient by over XXXX, with no explanation or notification from Navient as to why."
7754,"Navient/XXXX is reporting me 90 days late on XXXX loans that I had an repayment plan set up that withdrew my monthly payment automatically. I also did not know that they were reporting each one of my loans as a seperate tradeline on my credit report. One late payment made to one creditor has resulted in 4 times the credit impact, which resulted in lenders imposing higher interest rates as a result of that impact. It is also affecting my credit score making it difficult to qualify for a mortgage loan."
7353,"I have paid on a consumer credit student loan since XXXX. My school did not accept federal or private loan disbursement of funds. This was living expense. After XXXX for over 10 years I am on XXXX XXXX. Consumer loans earmarked as student loans disbursed directly to me are not dischargable in ch. XXXX bankruptcy. ACS services my loan and ca n't make discussion in regard to discharge, and they will not provide me with the of the bank who owns the loan, who makes those decisions. THE PROMISSORY NOTE HAS BEEN LOST BY THE SERVICER AND THE OWNER OF THE LOAN. THEY HAVE PAGE XXXX AND XXXX. THE TERMS ARE LOST. THEY TELL ME THEY ARE UNDER NO OBLIGATION TO TELL ME ANYTHING. IF I STOP PAYING, I CAN HAVE CONTACT WITH THE OWNER OF THE LOAN. Federal loans are discharged in my situation. In bankruptcy this is no longer a consumer loan. The rules that apply to federal loans would benefit me, but now I found out the XX/XX/XXXX bankruptcy reform only punishes those with a consumer credit loan and does not afford those of us with the private loan the benefits afforded for a federal student loan holder. OF ALL OF THE RULES PERTAINING TO CREDIT, THIS IS THE MOST UNJUST AND INCONSISTENT. THERE IS NO PROTECTION OF THE INDIVIDUAL FROM BANKS WHO CREATE LAWS FOR THEIR BENEFIT. UPON MY DEATH I AM NOT EVEN ALLOWED TO KNOW WHAT WILL BECOME OF THIS LOAN. XXXX XXXX currently claims they hold the loan, but my SERVICER will not confirm or deny. Banks can change legal documents even after agreeing upon the terms and they do n't even have to keep a copy of the promissory note."
451,"Navient is making it extremely difficult for me to switch to the "" repaye '' program that was made available to borrowers. My loans qualify. Currently I am on the income driven repayment that alows for XXXX % of Disposable income. Navient originally told me I would have to pay XXXX ( or whatever I could afford to switch ), when I called to switch I was placed on hold ( service rep ) spoke with supervisor who told her to tell me I am out of forbearance time and they would require a XXXX payment to switch me!? ... THey refused to switch me for XXXX ... Navient originally misinformed me of the possess to switch and then demanded more money for me to switch to a program I am entitled to. Sad this organization is permitted to mislead and use these deceptive practices. 

Thank you for taking the time to view my complaint."
4529,I do not believe Navient is amortizing the payments correctly. I 've been paying for over 2 years and my principal balance has only gone down about {$1100.00} and I pay {$50.00} per month extra
2060,"I XXXX being a XXXX woman trying to better the lives of my family by attending school to become a XXXX, carrying XXXX full time jobs while I obtain that education, find the credit reporting actions of Federal Loan Servicing to be discriminatory to my race. I am not borowing any further student loans as I work XXXX full time jobs, but I do have a great deal of student loan debts that I will start paying on as soon as I complete my XXXX in XX/XX/2017. All of my student loans to date have been deferred of payments. So how can this agency report my payment history as 90-days late from the beginning. I have attached copies of how these accounts are reported with the credit bureaus. I never had to make payments while the loans were in deferment. I can not obtain credit due to the abusive reporting practices of this agency on my personal credit reports. I demand that since no payment history was ever legally established, that all payments histories be purged from each and every account posted on credit. This abusive reporting action must cease immediately."
3918,I asked for a income based forgiveness plan n they stuck me with a $ XXXX monthly payment and because I ca n't pay at this moment it hit my credit negatively. It was not honored at all.
22,I was always told my customer service to do a Forbearance which resulted into my loan amount increasing dramatically. I was never told about the income based repayment until i asked about it even though everytime I called about my student loans I stated that i could n't afford the payments.
4123,"I received numerous phone calls from national enterprise systems on a false phone number. All phone calls are on XX/XX/2017 time stamped at XXXX am, XXXX,XXXX am and XXXX am with a number of XXXX. Then they called my place of employment on XX/XX/2017 when I am not supposed to be taking any personal phone calls. I also informed them on the last call on XX/XX/2017 that they were in violation on federal law and then hung up on the collector. This behavior is in violation of the harassment section of the fair debt collection act section 866"
7401,"I changed my bank account in XXXX 2016 and alerted Sallie Mae and changed my bank account number in their system and deleted the old account. I updated all auto-debit setups. First, in XXXX 2016 XXXX student loans went to the old account ( auto-debit ) and were declined. Now in XXXX 2016 the XXXX student loan ( also auto-debit ) went to the old account and was declined. I received notification on XXXX/XXXX/2016 that the charge did not go through and started receiving collections calls the same day ( even though I immediately paid all that I owed and the next month ahead as soon as I was notified ). I called customer service the same day ( call was recorded ) and the customer service rep admitted she could see no record of this other account and could n't understand why this other account had been charged. She helped enroll me in auto debit again and yet still my account does reflect the accurate information. There is no record of my pending payment, nothing ( even though the customer service rep could see I had a pending payment ). Sallie Mae 's systems are woefully out of date and the customers should not be punished for their shortcomings."
2736,"I have been paying my loan regularly, no late payments, for over a year. Decided to start paying on principal. Had made full payment a couple days prior, on time, and made a second payment, including "" special instructions '' as instructed. I was told only a portion would go to principal, the rest to late fees and interest. I do n't have late fees, but they had given me one! 
I sent the complaint below, but would like to say that Navient is horrible ... .always. I can rarely understand the representatives, email response is slow and reflects little to no attention to the actual complaint/query. They make a fortune. Why ca n't we have decent service?!!! 
Here is my complaint to them : I received a shocking reply to my email and have looked at how you posted my payment with special instructions. I see you included a late fee. PLEASE REMOVE. I had already made the payment for the month, on time, and it registered a couple days earlier. This was to be applied to the PRINCIPAL, as I have been told we can do. The interest for the month was also made in the payment $ XXXX monthly payment made a couple days earlier. Either your processing personnel are inept or you are employing predatory practices. I should be able to pay on my principal. Anything else is usury, as well as false advertising on your part. PLEASE AMEND THE SPECIAL INSTRUCTION PAYMENT IMMEDIATELY."
5066,"I graduated from XXXX University with my XXXX Degree in 2012. I XXXX currently owe Navient about {$70000.00} in private loans. Most of my private loans have an interest rate of 8 %, 9 %, and even 11 % with an unfavorable repayment term. I am interested in consolidating my various private student loans into a more favorable loan with a lower interest rate and a more appropriate repayment term ; but I 'm afraid I have no options. The flexibility enjoyed by many people across this country with a variety of loans, does not apply to me with a private loan. Please advice regarding the current situation with private loans and possible solutions for people like myself."
8936,"I recently looked at my credit report ( XXXX, XXXX and XXXX ) and it indicates that I was 30-59 days late on my XXXX University loans in XX/XX/XXXX / XX/XX/2016. 
I was not 30 days late. 
I would like to let it be known that I received the letter attached ( dated XXXX/XXXX/2016 ) from XXXX XXXX ' that clearly displays a quarterly amount due of {$560.00} ( quarterly payment due date : XXXX/XXXX/16 ). 
I would like to let it also be known that I logged in to XXXX, and made a payment of {$560.00} on XXXX/XXXX/2016 - which is the amount that was due, and which is the full amount that was indicated and reflected as due online at that time. My payment history in the last 12 months shows that I have been paying at least this amount every quarter. 
I have not received any written or verbal notification of change in my quarterly amount {$560.00} or my interest rate. I was not aware that a late fee would be assessed or was assessed since this was not reflected on XXXX on XXXX/XXXX/2016 when I made full payment. 
Just like the university, I am committed to pursuing truth unto its innermost parts. My ideal resolutions would be that XXXX University and Campus Partners immediately remove this mark on my credit report as I have proof that I have been paying the amounts due well before they were 30 days late ; AND to provide me with a clear updated and transparent status of the loan including amounts due and dates due as well as the policy of late fees ( fee amount and when they are assessed during the quarterly cycle ). 
As a result, any report of late payment to the Credit Bureaus is unjustified, abusive and improper."
5157,Navient continues to make it impossible to pay off my debt. The company has raised my interest rate to 10 % on several of my private loans. When I called to discuss interest rate lowered program the representative wanted all of my co-signers information as well. I am unable to give financial information for my co-signers. Also as co-signers they have no obligation to assist with my loans unless I go into default.
7267,"I am getting harassing phone calls from Navient. I am called about XXXX times a day, including weekends."
158,"I 've worked for XXXX for almost 10 years now. When the public service plan was advertised I contacted XXXX XXXX to ask if I was eligible. I was told no because I 'd consolidated my loans already. So I left it at that but still participated in the IBR plan. Last year, I thought I 'd just check again. This time I was told that yes I would be eligible, but would have to transfer my loan to the government directly, and the almost 10 years of consistent repayment would be erased. Had the XXXX XXXX Rep explained that I would have to move my loan from them, I 'd be in a different situation. I feel like that information was withheld on purpose."
5327,"I am in approximately {$260000.00} of debt from school fees that are all from my XXXX education at XXXX University. Many, but not all, of my loans have a 10 percent interest rate. At one point I tried to consolidate, and was turned down. I have XXXX individual private loans ( through Navient - formerly XXXX XXXX ) and federal loans ( through XXXX ). I left school with {$80000.00} in debt. Paying off this debt has been exacerbated by an egregious case of XXXX XXXX XXXX, for which I have been treated ( and had to leave a semester of school for ). I was officially diagnosed at XXXX, though I struggled with this condition my entire life and am currently in XXXX. I am addressing this because the XXXX played a role in my difficulty in initially negotiating, procuring, and then paying off these loans. Many have doubled. This has become an extreme XXXX burden. 

In contacting you, I am attempting to address my debt in a different way, rather than paying the minimum balance I can currently afford and watching the interest continue to accrue in a way that I feel exploits me. Apparently, I 'm wasting my money as a few lawyers indicated. I am hoping to explore my options. 

Throughout the process of seeking legal advise : XXXX lawyer advised me to file a Chapter XXXX bankruptcy claim.In addition, we were exploring the tenets of the XXXX XXXX towards whether or not anything was dischargeable. More than XXXX lawyer indicated that a strategic default was the best option and in doing so ; destroying my credit and providing for a hand-to-mouth off the grid existence. I have explored ; to no avail, almost every avenue of reconciliation which includes income based repayment, forgiveness, consolidation, forbearances, deferment, student loan companies, etc ... Another indicated that I try to find someone to take on my case pro bono or to represent myself pro se. And, another indicated the best option was to engage in a strategic discharge that I find to be ethically and morally reprehensible. However, I 'd be judgment proof apparently. This is not what I want to do! 

I 've been working XXXX hours a week for the last ten years of my life. I am tired, exhausted, scared, and these loans do not seem to be getting smaller, but rather larger. Im seriously concerned with my ability to have a life socially and economically because this debt is such a burden on me. 

I truly am not wishing to exploit this system and want to honor my debt. However, this is insurmountable and I do not see a way to pay off the debt in my lifetime. Are there other options for me to explore? 


I do n't have any idea what to do now ... I ca n't get out from under this seemingly insurmountable debt. I ca n't participate in the economy in any sort of meaningful way ( house, savings, XXXX edu, car, etc. )."
8091,"Navient services XXXX of my private loans and XXXX of my XXXX loans from when I attended the University of XXXX. Over the course of the last couple years, as I have repaid the loans, I have noticed multiple issues with how the allocate payments and how the interest is applied. In particular, I have decided over the last half year to make a plan to pay my loans off in the next two years, and so made amortization tables and created a plan to pay off my highest interest rate loans first. I noticed that when I had been mailing in extra cash in addition to my normal payments, there were glaring inconsistencies in how the money was being allocated across my various loans, and I was unable to determine a formula that would explain why the extra cash was being allocated as it was - other than a general pattern : the highest interest loans were receiving the least additional payment. This stands in contrast to what I have seen from XXXX XXXX, whose policy it is to at least give even allocation, regardless of interest ( obviously the most generous to the consumer is to allocate to the highest interest first, but I would not expect a company to do this by default ). In order to correct this issue with Navient, I had them ungroup my loans so that I could pay each individually, and signed up for auto-debit to take advantage of the interest rate deduction. However, I noticed XXXX additional issues at this time. When I pay an amount in addition to my debit amount, prior to the due date, Navient issues a warning that the auto debit will still occur in that month ( in addition to my off-cycle payment ). This was not the case - when I submitted the additional payment, it was for my highest interest rate loans only, and those loans did not also have an auto-debit transaction. The issue with this is that unless I had been on top of watching my statements, the company was not charging my account as they committed to do, and therefore I would end up paying more interest over time on my highest interest loans. The other issue I had noticed at this time was that the interest amounts on my amortization table did not match the interest amounts that were being deducted from my monthly payments. I know that Navient has settled ( a ) suit ( s ) in the fast for nefarious interest rate practices, and I suspect that they are still being dishonest with consumers in regards to how they calculate and charge interest on their loans. My amortization table is calculated for daily compounding interest, and is accurate for my XXXX XXXX loans. To summarize, I have loans serviced by XXXX different companies : XXXX XXXX and Navient. XXXX XXXX is transparent, their website works well and based on how they allocate my additional payments and how the portion of my payment that goes toward interest matches my amortization table, I believe they are generally acting in good faith servicing my loans. On the other hand, I can say with a high degree of confidence that Navient lacks transparency in how it manages its student loans and actively places barriers in the way to its customers being able to manage the loans in the way that is best for them. My strategy with them is to pay off their loans as fast as possible because I believe they are not trustworthy with my debt, and I worry that there are many more consumers who are falling victim to these practices but just lack the tools and knowledge to see that they are being ripped off. Added together, over the course of me paying off my loans at the rate I was, allowing them to allocate my additional payments, I would have only lost several hundreds of dollars. But when you consider the total portfolio of loans they hold, that is a lot of money taken from consumers in an unfair way."
6447,"We made an agreement for a new more affordable repayment in the amount of {$360.00} to which I have been paying, actually overpaying by sending them an even {$360.00}. Navient has thrown me in deliquent status claiming payment is $ XXXX and continues to tell me that our agreement was a 15 month program even though i have paperwork stating that i need to make 321 payments at this rate ... 321 monthly payments that somehow expire in 15 months. They have not been very cooperative and it is the definition of crony capitalism, they have all the protections of the government but none of the regulations that federal loans have. I just want to pay the amount of {$360.00} that we agreed on and for them to quit calling me and fix my credit they demolished by going back on our agreement but they dont see it that way. I simply can not afford the $ XXXX a month that they raised my monthly payment to and i shouldnt have to since im holding up my end of the deal. I have continued to pay them the {$360.00} amount we agreed on, plus an extra {$4.00} on top of that and im in or close to delinquency status because I refuse to give in and let them go back on our contract and bully me into paying more than I can afford when I have made every payment on time for the previously the agreed {$360.00} amount."
7450,I 've never attempted to payback my student loan for a for profit school which is not only currently closed but I have both private and federal loans through XXXX XXXX feel I was misplead by the type of living wages were expected after school and the way in ehicvh I was forced to service a loan or ends my school.
6081,"Two loans through Navient doubled due to accrued interest. Went from XXXX to XXXX. I 've asked for a lower payment, but I do n't meet the income continent plans. They do n't take into account other students loans, house payment, car payment, etc. They are rude, unwilling to help, and should be held accountable for misleading practices concerning accrued interest."
8541,"XXXX XXXX ( now Navient ) misallocated payments between the loans in a Billing Group. I request that the payments be properly reapplied. 

At the time of the error, Private Loan XXXX had a principal balance of {$31000.00} with an interest rate of 3 % and Private Loan XXXX had a principal balance of {$27000.00} at 2 % interest. 

Despite repeated requests to move these private loans out of the same Billing Group, at the time that this allocation error occurred, XXXX XXXX had denied my requests. They repeatedly denied these requests to separate the loans from a Billing Group until XXXX XXXX. 

In the attached documentation, you 'll see that a {$10.00} payment made on XXXX/XXXX/XXXX and a {$12.00} payment made on XXXX/XXXX/XXXX were XXXX allocated towards XXXX loan only : the Private Loan XXXX, which has the lower interest rate and the lower principal balance within the Billing Group at the time. 

Payments made on XXXX/XXXX/XXXX, XXXX/XXXX/XXXX and XXXX/XXXX/XXXX seem to be properly allocated between XXXX loans within the same Billing Group."
183,"When I graduated from XXXX school XX/XX/XXXX I consolidated Stafford and XXXX XXXX loans into a Federal Direct Consolidation Loan and, thus, became locked into an 8.25 % interest rate. The consolidated Federal Direct Loan I took out was {$60.00}. 
After XX/XX/XXXX Interest rates on student loans dropped as low as 1.5 % but I could not refinance ( re-consolidate ) my loan to obtain a lower interest rate because federal law prohibits the re-consolidation of a previously consolidated loan unless, of course, a private bank is willing to refinance the loan without collateral or the government 's guarantee. However, after outcry from private banks who wanted the lucrative risk free profits to be had, if they could just re-consolidate direct loans into guaranteed loans, there was a brief period where private banks were allowed to re-consolidate previously consolidated federal direct loans into guaranteed student loans if they could show that the borrower would benefit. 
So XX/XX/XXXX I re-consolidated my consolidated federal direct student loan into a FFEL loan with a private lender, and of two options I was offered that would lower my interest rate if I complied with certain conditions, I chose the one where I would get a permanent 1 % reduction if I made 36 on time payments or all of my payments on time for the next three years. 
My loan changed hands a few times before being transferred to XXXX as the loan servicer where it has remained for years now. I think the loan is now owned by XXXX. 
But XXXX has unconsolidated my loan and turned it into XXXX loans, a Federal Subsidized Loan and a Federal Un-Subsidized Loan. And now, they even send me XXXX bills. They send me a statement for my subsidized portion of my consolidated loan, which they have now unconsolidated into a separate loan.. And they send me another statement for the un-subsidized portion of the loan, which they have now unconsolidated into a separate loan. XXXX now sends me XXXX statements for my consolidated FFEL loan, a loan that was made as a re-consolidation a previously consolidated Federal Direct Consolidation Loan.But I only have XXXX loan!!! 
I went through various difficulties during the recession that followed my re-consolidation but I nonetheless never made a late payment and eventually met the condition to obtain the reduced interest rate. And XXXX did reduce the interest rate on XXXX of my "" loans '' but not on the other XXXX. They only reduced the interest rate on my "" subsidized loan. '' But, again, I only have XXXX loan!!! 
This is how XXXX came to the twisted conclusion that I had only met the 36 on time payments on half of my consolidated loan : Eventually I entered into the IBR plan, and I tried to make some payments even though my payment due under the income based re-payment plan was {$0.00}. I thought they would apply these payments to the principle but they refused to do so. They insisted these payments could only be applied to future interest. Yes, that 's right, future interest. And they only applied the payments to the future interest on my "" subsidized loan. '' So payments made on my "" subsidized loan '' got ahead of the payments made on my "" un-subsidized loan. '' That is how they credited me with having only met the conditions to obtain the promised 1 % reduction on XXXX of my "" loans. '' But wait a minute, I only have XXXX loan!!! I only have XXXX loan, and they only gave me the reduction on XXXX of that loan. That is what they did. They cheated me out of the promised rate reduction on my loan. And it is very upsetting that I ca n't re-consolidate at today 's lower interest rates because I already consolidated XX/XX/XXXX, yet my loan is now unconsolidated and I am denied the benefits of consolidation. 
XXXX also encouraged me to stay in deferment for years instead of entering IBR even though I told them I was going to go into IBR.. I now think I should have gone into IBR right away and they knew this."
4335,"Sallie Mae is engaging in harassment tactics to attempt to collect payment. From having XXXX, I know that it is not legal for companies to engage in such practices. They call me several times PER DAY, and many of the calls are during work hours. This is completely inappropriate. It is also entirely inappropriate for them to call my mother during business hours. As of today, I have written them a letter demanding that they stop immediately. I will file an additional complaint if they do not adhere to my demands. Any of the times I have answered their calls, their agents have been incredibly rude and/or condescending. I will not stand for this kind of treatment."
2887,"I pay my loans through a service called Nelnet. I changed my repayment plan and it was initially processed in XXXX 2016. Since XXXX, Nelnet has made mistakes with how my repayment plan was processed on each group of my loans. Due to this issue, my payments have been incorrect every single month. I received no notice from Nelnet in the changes to my repayment plan processing, only the monthly statement notices. Each time I speak to a customer service representative ( at least once a month ) to ask why my statement has changed, the story changes as to why my monthly payment has changed. Additionally, each month I am assured that the problem is rectified and that my repayment plan has been correctly processed only to find out that the information about my payment they give me is incorrect. This has negatively affected how I manage my bills every month and has made me feel that I am being taken advantage of by these loan collectors. I have had to ask for an apology from several employees and was never offered any consolation for how my loan repayment plan process was mishandled."
735,"I used navient after they bought out my XXXX XXXX loans. 

They pushed me into going into forebearance and did not explain that I would be paying the interest even though I was not making payments. Also they did not explain that I could be on income based repayments and would have had {$0.00} payments while in my first year of internship, since my previous year I was a student with no income. They did not properly explain all of my repayment options and pushed me into forebearance. Now, I have stared with income based repayments and I am on tract with the federal student loan foregiveness program. Because of them, I missed out on being in this program for 4 years ( which would have qualified towards the forgiveness program )."
7865,"Navient has not been helpful at all in my repayment. I was laid off and now I work with a XXXX that has n't been able to pay me for 2 months. I no longer receive unemployment so it has been really hard. I spoke with a representative at Navient and the lady was so inconsiderate like she just focused on a script. I informed the lady that she woke me up and all she said was when can you make a payment. Then she informed me that if I do n't make a payment I will continue to get calls and will my co-signers. I informed the lady that my grandfather who was a co-signer passed away even before I graduated in 2010. She then asked me to provide the death certificate, I said really?! It was a shock being asked that. I wish the repayment was as helpful as XXXX. I was able to do repayment based on my income, without a struggle and irritating phone calls for my federal loans."
1068,"For almost a year, I have been filling our paperwork sending in information on getting an IBR payment plan. For the last 6 months, I either did not receive any notice of denial or when my denial came it was little things that they did not find in the previous applications. For instance, they denied my one application because my husband did not sign it ... but he actually did. However, they did not contact me until after the 30 day time frame so I had to resubmit. Then they denied it again because I checked an extra box, but they did not tell me that was the issue the first 3 times I submitted. After resubmitting the last time a month ago, I have not heard anything from them except to demand the loan in full. I have sent all my paperwork in over and over again and still they refuse to work with me and each person tells me something different. Even with a third party on the line trying to help ( XXXX XXXX XXXX ). At one point I asked them to verify the date they mailed off the letter I am defaulting on loans that I want to pay, just at a lower rate. Unfortunately, they made the process so tedious and difficult that it has made dealing with loan harder than it should be. Even after the letter demanding the full amount of the loan I get an email saying my forbearance is excepted. I honestly do not know what to do any more."
8692,"I have been dealing with XXXX XXXX over the last few years. Now that they have switched to Navient I have had nothing but issues with the company. In XX/XX/XXXX I was contacted by a Navient rep regarding my monthly payments. I thought I was still on a forbearance period and had no idea I was passed due XXXX months! She ( the agent who contacted me at the time ) helped me figure out a way to make a payment that could work with my budget, but forgot to tell me that it was only going to cover just XXXX of the XXXX loans. I was then contacted XX/XX/XXXX by a representative named XXXX whom was very rude and very unhelpful/disrespectful. I explained to him that I was unable to make a payment due to hardship and if there was anyway we could work something out to help me it would be appreciated. He then rudely told me I should seek a XXXX job and make my payments that way! I was thrown back by his commitment. At the time I just lost my mother due to a XXXX, she was only XXXX years old and it happened quickly,! I was in and out of work and on medical leave to help my family deal with our tough loss of our mother. Then, I have this representative tell me sorry you 're out of luck get a XXXX job! He made me feel worthless and helpless. Due to my situation I was unable to make payments or get adequate help with my loans. I recently got into XXXX and will be attending this summer or fall depending on my directors instructions. I received a call yesterday XXXX/XXXX/15 from my rep XXXX, again rudely expressed that I was a horrible person and began yelling at for trying to explain myself and the reasoning behind the missed payments. I asked to speak with a manager and it was not any better, I then asked for her supervisor and when she did I finally got to explain my past concerns and how I will be attending XXXX XXXX. We talked for 25 minutes and made arrangements for a payment the next day XXXX/XXXX/15. She also expressed to me that XXXX will no longer be contacting me and they will take proper actions with him regarding my concerns and his behavior. I also made sure she noted my account to pay the amount of {$310.00} and she assured to me severe times it is noted and her assistant is going to handle my payment the next day. So, today XXXX/XXXX/2015, I call to make my payment, was transfused to XXXX the agent who was causing me hard ache over the past months, told him to see his supervisors notes to make the {$310.00} payment, and I turn he said he saw nothing noted or an agreement noted in the system between me and his supervisor. I was so upset I hung up and ended the conversation. So I 'm back to square one and am running out of time. Again, I just need someone to help me or work with me and listen to my concerns. I have saved the voicemails from this representive as well. I have been loosing sleep over this and it 's causing me nothing but pain. I am doing the best I can with the cards I have been dealt at the moment. Please help and is there anything I can do? 
Thank you for your time!"
8795,"I currently have $ XXXX in private student loan debt initially with XXXX XXXX and since has changed to Navient. The payment asked was {$1400.00} and change per month. 
Through various attempts and requests for programs to make my payment something manageable, I was awarded two back to back rate reduction plans that brought my interest rates to 3 % ( but only on XXXX of the XXXX loans ). The payment was reduced to {$710.00} a month. 
This amount was barely manageable, but I made it work to keep my credit in good standing. I contacted Navient at the end of the most recent program enrollment ( scheduled to end XX/XX/2017 ) and was told my payment on the same XXXX loans if we did nothing would be {$1200.00}, which is clearly far more than I had been paying and again not feasible. The best payment offered was {$840.00}. This amount is still a large stretch for me. After going through all the financials the representative even asked how I pay my bills since my expense to income ratio was negative. If that is the case how can I afford {$840.00}? 
My "" normal '' interest rate is 10.25 % on some of these loans, 10.25 %. That seems excessive and far above the current interest rates. At that kind of rate, paying off my loans in my lifetime is not possible. There has to be something that can be done in the private loan sector to alleviate this kind of pain. I do not disagree I owe back the {$70000.00} I borrowed, but at what cost? Owing over {$100000.00} in just interest alone is crazy. 10.25 % is predatory by all accounts of the word."
2974,"In XX/XX/XXXX I received a XXXX Unsubsidized loan for {$3500.00} for XXXX. Since that time, I have heard nothing from my loan servicers ( XXXX XXXX initially, and Navient ). In XX/XX/XXXX, I was sent a single email telling me that my loan was being transitioned from XXXX XXXX to Navient and that nothing needed to be done because "" we will get back to you at a later date ''. That was the only email I received regarding my loan. In XX/XX/XXXX, I received a single email from Navient which was an advertisement for a different service they offered ; again, nothing about my loan. 
Now, 10 years later, I am graduating from XXXX school and undergoing mandatory loan counseling and see that my loan of XXXX has become XXXX. Upon contacting Navient, I learned that I was charged multiple late fees ( I was never informed that I had any payments due at any time since I was in XXXX school so loans were deferred ). They also claim that they had emailed me ( they had n't, I did an extensive search of my only email address ) and then changed their statement and claimed that loan servicers do not contact individuals whose loans are deferred. I have a different loan servicer for my graduate loans and have routinely received both mail and email updates regarding my current balance, so I know this is inaccurate. they were also unable to give me a reason as to why I was being charged late fees if I had never been contacted ( per their own company policy about deferred loans ). Ten years later, and I 'm being forced to pay double for something that I could 've EASILY paid off if I had been notified regularly."
3674,"I requested a payoff for my XXXX federal student loans that had a balance, totaling approximately {$9700.00}, I paid that amount in full through Navients website the same day that I requested the payoff ( XXXX/XXXX/17 ). My auto deduction payment of approximately {$480.00} for Navient then was taken out on XXXX/XXXX/2017. I was told by various Navient customer service reps ( XXXX at the main line, and XXXX at the escalated number ) that it would take anywhere beteeen 4-8 weeks for me to receive a refund for my {$480.00}, I would also not receive any interest on the amount for the duration that it would take for my refund to be applied. None of the 3 customer service representatives at Navient could offer me a refund in any time that I felt was suitable for the auto deduct that should n't have occurred. 
I disagree with Navient pulling the auto deduction because they should have been able to calculate that my all of my loans were already paid in full, however, even if it was "" in process '' ( or if Navients systems are n't smart enough to realize that the loans had no balance ), it should n't take close to 2 months for a refund to be given. 
I understand that I am likely in a smaller pool of borrowers who are actually able to repay their student loans, but I feel that it is completely unethical and unfair that my money will be held for a period of up to 2 months when I do n't even owe a penny on any of my student loans, and that I wo n't be given any sort of interest compensation for my money being held for this long. 
Furthermore, Navient customer service representatives suggested that I contact my bank and request for them to stop the payment of {$480.00} due to a unauthorized transaction. While I assume that going through my bank could be faster ( bc 2 months for a refund is absolutely absurd ), my bank should not need to be involved in this refund, it should be handled in a timely fashion ( which is much less than 2 months ) by the loan service provider, Navient."
4207,"I have XXXX FFEL Stafford Subsidized Loans in default. Both loans were for {$5500.00} and I owe {$3200.00} on one ( {$88.00} outstanding interest ) and {$3200.00} on the other ( {$100.00} outstanding interest ). I could only find out this information on the federal student loan website. Navient apparently owned both loans at some point, but they show XXXX loan as transferred and XXXX loan as paid by USA Funds. On the federal site, one shows that XXXX has it, but when I login, there is no information and no payment due. The other shows that it 's all still with Navient, but Navient 's website shows it 's not. I moved in 2011 during an economic hardship forbearance, and I never got any more information on repayment. Since then, I 've been trying to track them down, and I STILL ca n't figure out how to repay everything. I need some sort of straightforward information, and when I contacted Navient their response was a form letter telling me options on how to repay loans, but no specific information as to WHO and HOW I repay loans that they show as not being at Navient, even though the federal website says XXXX is at Navient."
2316,"My student loan servicing was sold from XXXX to XXXX. I contacted XXXX to ask if this would require any of my Auto-Pay information to be changed or confirmed. They informed me that there was no need to change anything as all of the Auto-Pay information was coming over from XXXX and payments with XXXX would continue as normal. I 'm paying more than the minimum in order to pay down the loan faster and reduce how much interest I 'll be paying. 

The first payment went through at the correct amount, but the second payment did not. The second payment was reduced, without my knowledge or consent, to an amount over {$50.00} less than my previous payment. Furthermore, my interest rate of the loan mysteriously went from ( an already ridiculous within this market ) 6.55 % to 6.8 %! I 've written to XXXX and have not received any response. This increase in interest ( which has potential to be fraudulent ) as well as their decision, without my permission, to decrease my monthly payments via AutoPay will greatly increase the interest that they 'll collect."
6974,"My Navient Online account was locked, preventing access to my information. The site said to call to unlock my account. The phone number provided registers as out of service, or directs me to an automated call service which has no info concerning locked accounts. 

Emailing "" XXXXXXXXXXXX '' results in a reply saying, do not email this account, please log in, ( which is impossible ) with a locked account. 

It seems that unnecessary burdens to account access are in place to prevent consumers from having the information necessary to make financial decisions. 

Please disband this company."
3226,"I spoke with a FedLoan representative about enrolling in the Public Service Loan Forgiveness ( PSLF ) program and was told that payments that I made under the 10-year Standard Repayment plan are not "" qualifying payments '' that count toward PSLF. However, the definitions on the PSLF form include the "" 10-Year Standard REpayment plsn '' [ sic ] as a "" qualifying repayment plan. '' The representative did not explain this."
5039,I have reached out to AES for help with repayment on my loans and they have told me that there is nothing they can do. I had a baby in XXXX and was unemployed for a few months. I had no way to pay the loan and called numerous time to try and work something out until I was able to make payments again.Now some of my loans are in default and I have no idea what to do. It is affecting my credit and my parents as well since they were cosigners.
6770,"They have e been taking mine and my husband 's federal tax check for the past 2 -3 years. I feel that we have paid my loan in full. We have struggled every year, almost lost our home because of them taking our tax money. Never was sent no amount of what was due, or a statement."
2210,"I have XXXX student loans through the college that I attended. I applied for deferment for the student loans in the past a reapplied once I received notification that my deferment was over on XXXX/XXXX/2016. I found out that I would not be eligible for deferment again but I would need to pay interest accrued during my deferment on XXXX plus my monthly payment arrangement. I called the office on XXXX to see if I could apply the accrued interest into my monthly payment and then was told yes. I asked if this meant my accounts would not be reported to the credit bureaus as past due and was told no. I found out after the fact of making that monthly payment arrangement that my accounts were reported as past due. I called and they listened to the tapes and emailed me stating that I was given wrong information but my accounts were past due so the reporting would stay. I asked if I made payment that day would I be able to reverse the reporting since I was told I did n't need to make the payment for the interest and was told no. Then, today I was emailed that if I do not catch up the past due I would be sent to collections. I then went online to make payment but my balance went up over $ XXXX. I called and was told "" after review, my deferment should have been up on XXXX account in XXXX and the other XXXX '' So, therefor they have back billed me for time that I was told I was under deferment and have charged me another $ XXXX that has to be paid by the XXXX or I will be sent to collections. Also, they reported my account as over 180 days past due to the bureaus when my bill for the accrued interest was due on XXXX. They said that was because the interest accrued for the time I was in deferment. I never received anything that stated if I do not pay the accrued interest after my deferment I would be past due the whole time of my deferment. I have been mislead multiple times and I feel as though I am trying to make this right but I keep getting more and more charges or problems each time any communication is received by them."
3703,"I have XXXX loans that were technically illegally given at the time i started school but the school somehow managed to push the loan the following year so it would look accurate. XXXX/Navient is reporting a 90 day late and with the payment history i have requested, my loans have always either been deferred or in a current status. This status is showing reported back in XX/XX/2012 on all XXXX Bureaus and they wont update the status nor will the credit Bureaus updated it with proof that there is no 90 day late. Please help me with getting this updated to having this negative remark removed."
6736,"I am the co-signer on XXXX of my daughter 's school loans. Navient is now the holder of these loans. There was confusion about a payment ; Navient said they had n't recieved it - my daughter knowing she paid it. During the interim, Navient called my cell phone every XXXX minutes or so from rotating numbers all day long for two or three days until she finally got everything sorted out. I sent a certified letter telling them not to contact my via my phone any more but rather only by the US mail, noting that their rotating call system was harassment rather than debt collecting. They sent me a response telling me they could call me anytime they wished ; that if I spoke with them, the calls would stop for that day only ; and that they are not subject to the Fair Debt Collections Practices Act. This was signed by the Private Credit Ombudsman 's Office. In other words, they will continue the next time there is an issue to harass me unless I answer their calls and even then there is no guarantee that the calls will stop. Further, they are saying they are exempt from the FDCPA and I have no recourse but to be harassed by them."
4654,"I "" was '' attending XXXX. They recently dropped me from the classes implying I was n't showing up for class. I explained to the dean way before classes started, that I could n't go due the my personal issues, so I would like to take online classes. The School moved in XXXX XXXX 2015 from a half hour from my home to XXXX hour from my home. Giving all students 4 days notice of the school moving. my classes would not show online then they accused me of not going to class at all. I sent several emails asking for my transcripts and a policy but I have never received the policy on drooping students. I never received my transcripts be cause they told me a month later I owe a balance which was not brought to my attention until I wanted to retrieve the documents. I was told I would graduate and earn a good paying job but no one wanted to even look at my resume when I explained I am in XXXX School. Not even for an XXXX. I am embarrassed and broke ( debt wise ) I returning to a XXXX college to receive the recognition I need to proceed in life. I had made some mistakes in life not knowing what career field to get into but I certainly made a big mistake when I went back to XXXX."
4877,"My interest rate has increased on a student loan on that I had a locked in interest rate previously with XXXX XXXX at 8.75 % and now it has increased with Navient to 9 %, which they say is due to 'libor rate ' which is not what was told to me in the several recorded phone calls I had with them. In addition, since I paid 'in advance ' a one time lump sum payment of $ XXXX, it is now nearly impossible to make an automated payment over the phone and when I actually get a representative on the line, they want to charge a fee of {$14.00} for taking a payment over the phone!! Not to mention their practices of not including, all in one area ( even online ) how much I pay, the interest that was paid and my new balance - this information is separated and spread out making it beyond difficult to keep track of my principle balance!! This has been the worst experience ever trying to pay off this private loan."
3027,"I tried to consolidate my loan into my home loan when purchasing my first house XX/XX/XXXX. Navient told me that unless I was getting an FHA loan to cut them a cash check with no 3rd party that they could not accept the money. I just wanted out of the interest rate nightmare we are all facing. Its going on 13 year now of paying off this loan and it still haunts my life even though I 've paid over the amount of the principle. I would like to save for my sons education however I am left trying to pay for a degree I earned XX/XX/XXXX. They call you to make sure you can make your upcoming payments. I also found this is a strange practice. 
I used to go over into the grace period when I was first eligible for repayment, I was XXXX and making XXXX a month with {$650.00} rent and {$190.00} car payment they still would not let me consolidate until many years later. It was basically a 3rd of my liveable income for a few years ( at the time it was XXXX XXXX ). I would get calls about when I was planning to make my payment every month multiple times and tried to talk to them about consoldation or hardship deferment and the representative would either hang up or tell me I was not eligable. None of it made sense. Literally years of run around to where you just throw up your hands and pay them as best you can."
3238,"I spoke with someone on the phone at FedLoan Servicing a few weeks ago in order to have the maximum amount of a recent payment first directed toward my loan with the highest interest rate. The payment amount was more than sufficient to pay this loan off in full. The request also asked that the remaining amount of the payment go toward my loan with the second highest interest rate. 

I submitted this same request via email prior to my phone call, but received no response from FedLoan Servicing in return. 

After my phone call, I was told to wait 20 days. Now that 20 days has passed and the payment has finally been re-allocated, I see that my directions were not followed correctly. I wanted to pay off the high interest loan IN FULL, which is exactly what I discussed with the representative on the phone a few weeks ago. Instead, the money was re-allocated in some random way between all my loans. I am getting concerned that interest is accruing despite the fact that the check has been cashed for some time now and my request for a full loan payoff has been made numerous times and is still not implemented."
843,"I was shocked when I reviewed my credit report and found several late payments on my student loans with the dates below : Account Number : XXXX 120 days past due as of XX/XX/2010 90 days past due as of XX/XX/2010, XX/XX/2010 Account Number : XXXX 120 days past due as of XX/XX/2010 90 days past due as of XX/XX/2010 I am not sure how this happened, I believe that I had made my payments to you when I received my statements. My only thought is that this was supposed to be in deferment and it did not get processed correctly or the payments I sent in were not registered."
2672,"My daughter was attending the XXXX XXXX XXXX but they were closing there doors and only offering online classes to students for them to finish off in order to receive their degrees. We were not informed about the situation when she first started there. They then told us that she could transfer to the XXXX campus seeing as she would have difficulty with the online courses with her XXXX which are documented and were turned in. I informed them that she had doctors appointments and testing that needed to be done for her medications and asked if the following semester would be better. They told me no that it would be fine for her to start that semester it would be no problem at all. As it turns out, they said she missed to much time and kicked her out. they advised us that she could n't come back until she paid for that semester in which was already paid by fasfa and direct plus. We have talked the companies that hold the but nothing has been done so far and they keep wanting us to make payments. She has had to enroll at another college in order to continue her education that works with her XXXX, but her pell and other grants have been reduced due to all of this and XXXX was giving her classes that she was n't prepared for due to requisites not being followed or classes she did n't need. I feel that we should n't be penalized for the time she spent at XXXX."
691,"I was told I could not pay off my loan because Great Lakes  (   XXXX    was the representatives name ) lumped all of my loa ns into one payment.   XXXX  told me that I have to satisfy my minimum monthly first before I can pay off my loan. My monthly payment is  one monthl y payment for all of my loans. Each loan was given a "" token number '' but was rolled in to one payme nt. Each loan has different interest rates. I am trying  to payoff one specific loan that is a low balan ce but high rate. They told me that even though I have a monthly automatic payment set up that I CAN NOT PAYOFF THAT LOAN. They said I have to make the minimum monthly payment  FIRST! I am trying to payoff one loan that they took upon themselves to roll into one big loan. This is costing me daily interest that the company is profiting from by not allowing me to payoff my small loan that they rolled into one big loan."
4899,"I called Sallie Mae to see if they could offer me some sort of loan modification because my student loan payments are too high and I ca n't afford them and the only option that they gave me was forbearance. I do n't want to do forbearance, I want my monthly payment to be affordable."
167,"After my XXXX in XX/XX/XXXX, I decided to go into a XXXX position that I am still working in. I was aware of the Public Loan Forgiveness program and inquired about the requirements. My loans are direct and eligible. I consolidated my loans in XX/XX/XXXX. I asked about whether this would change my eligibility and was assured that if I still made payments, I would be on track for the student loan forgiveness program. In XX/XX/XXXX, I decided to submit my application to see where I stood. I received a response back in XX/XX/XXXX stating that none of payments qualified. I contacted the FedLoan Services at XXXX XX/XX/XXXX to ask about this. They said it was because I consolidated my loan. They listed the eligible payment plans and said that I could pay a 10 year level payment plan and then be eligible. I stated that if I did that my entire loan would be paid off, so there would be nothing to be forgiven. She said "" probably. '' I knowingly took a XXXX position, making less than I could in the commercial sector so that I could work towards student loan payoff. Now, after over 8 years, I am being told that my payments are not eligible. Why have a "" forgiveness '' plan if you are required to pay it in full. There is nothing to forgive. I do not recall back in XX/XX/XXXX when I did this seeing anything that said a consolidated loan would not qualify. This program is a sham. 
XXXX School : XXXX University, XXXX, MO"
5098,"Like a desperate college student, I got a private Hesaa NJ Class Loan. I defaulted on the loan, my parent and I put down a large lump sum amount. I was put on a temporary payment plan to give me time to pay the rest. However, if you do n't have the money, you do n't have the money. I made all my payments on time. Received a letter that the balance XXXX was due, called the Attorneys to continue this payment plan, because my family do n't have the lump sum to pay off. We cant get a loan, because this loan in preventing us from getting any outside Loan. So we are stuck. Hesaa, please give families that have defaulted on your NJ CLASS LOAN the ability to rehabilitate their loans."
1414,"I have reached out multiple times to Fed Loans Servicing to resolve my issue and have been unable to resolve any. I am filing a compliant because my loans were transferred by Fed Loans Servicing to default when I was making payments. I paid almost {$12000.00} in XXXX, to lower the cost of my loans. I was paying on my loans when XXXX were transferred to default XXXX and sent to a third party. 
I consolidated all of my loans in XXXX, I assumed all of loans were consolidated until I received a phone call from a collection agency stating that Fed Loans Servicing had transferred XXXX of my loans to them do to non payment. I received a phone call from Fed Loans admitting their mistake on my account and stating they would erase any negative reporting on my account. There was no record of the phone call on my account to inform other fed loan employees of the mistake made by Fed Loans. 
In XXXX 2016 the XXXX loans were added back to my Fed Loan account but my credit has been falsely negatively reported because of Fed Loan Servicing making a mistake. 
I have spoken numerous supervisors and have sent certified mail with my payment history twice and clearly my loans should have never been in default or sent to a third party. This has been a very unprofessional handling of my loans. I am asking for help, I do not know what else I can possibly do to resolve my issues with Fed Loans Servicing."
2708,"I have several XXXX student loans these loans have been in deferment or forbearance since I left school and as I look back thru the records they are showing online XXXX XXXX /Navient have been charging late fees as far back as 2007 which is ludicrous. And my loans were originally being serviced by XXXX XXXX, now it is being serviced by Navient. 
I began repaying my loans this year and all my payments have been stolen to pay for fees I do n't owe. I am considering legal action against Navient/ XXXX XXXX and the dept. of Education for not doing their due diligence in monitoring these crooks. I want my money for fees credited to my loans and no more XXXX from Navient. what can you do to help?"
2632,My student loans are with Navient I applied to have payments reduced via some sort of repayment plan back in XX/XX/XXXX ... I later found out that all my loans were reporting separately as individual loans even though I had consolidated them years ago while they were under XXXX I called navient and I was told to do a request to have them consolidated again so that they report at XXXX loan instead of XXXX separate loans ... so I did ... then areond XX/XX/XXXX I received a letter about my repayment request saying I did n't turn documents in which I did and then I called and the rep located them and said she was forwarding them over. A few weeks later I received a letter saying I had a payment due XX/XX/XXXX even though my loans were in defferment until XX/XX/XXXX. I called and was told the loans were paid off because of the consolidation but my application for repayment plan was still being processed and there was nothing I needed to do .... now weeks later the loans are still reporting to the credit bureaus as XXXX individual loans and as personal loans ( even though they are student loans and were previous reported as such ) but on navients site they show as XXXX lump some with XXXX payment ... I also have not received anything further regarding my repayment options or application .... this has been the worst process ever and I have been patient yet getting no where with them..
690,"Based on information provided by XXXX I sought to seek enrollment as a fulltime student at the XXXX university to pursue a XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX. Based on expected cost & information provided states tuition & fees ARE NOT billed at the cost per credit hour of {$600.00}. In addition, pre-generated predatory loans with XXXX though Great Lakes Borrowing based on Truth in Lending Act includes fees for the school application of which was previously settled months prior to enrollment. Total amount billed with Great Lakes include Cost of course/ fees for classes I as a student never enrolled, gained education, or scheduled. 

Transcripts of prior courses were provided and approved by the institution before enrollment for credit adjustment to decrease original loan amount for cost of transferrable credit. While enrolled as a Full-Time student all Department of Education Subsidized, Unsubsidized, and Scholarships were applied to Tuition. It was advised if I wish to obtain additional funding for expected living/outside expenses private loans were required, as additional funds received by University would deflate institutional awarded scholarship that is non-cash redeemable. 

With intensive recruiting by agent XXXX XXXX, there was an urgency to begin classes sooner than expected as all documents were secured with appropriate departments. Special structure of program allows access to classes taken online until arrival at the XXXX. After speaking with several other students who were not aware of the process it was determined many students originally failed the online introductory XXXX credit hour course, which is designed for campus resulting in {$1800.00} pay to retake fee. 

Lack of independent accounting practice as done by XXXX and XXXX XXXX, has afforded XXXX to negatively impact student & parent consumers credit with students who are billed {$45000.00} for courses and a negligence to mention approximately {$17000.00} unmet need with Department of Education as expectation of private loans by parent plus or cosigner are to meet student living arrangements. 

After addressing wishes to suspend having loans billed as I would not be attending classes XXXX XXXX continuously billed Great Lakes from XXXX with out approval. 

XXXX XXXX, XXXX I received an email stating XXXX XXXX University reconciled records to determine a XXXX Refund Check was due in the amount of {$1.00} from loans disbursed to the University by Department of Education from Fiscal Year of XXXX for expected associate cost of obtaining a education while attending classes XXXX hours a day 6 days a week. 

Many students ' graduates and those who were forced to withdraw due to lack of XXXX XXXX funding are stuck with the burden of poor quality education, un-transferrable courses and erroneous loans unable to make payment or obtain gainful employment."
1546,I have no idea how I over over XXXX. I never was told about my interest. I took out XXXX small loans. I went to a 4 year university and lived on campus for one year. XXXX did nothing to help me. I barely make XXXX with a college degree.I was never told about private and federal loans and going to school out of state. Nothing was explained to me.
3802,"I was a XXXX XXXX student, at the end of school was given a consolidation with sallie mae- no other program was available. They took XXXX loans ( 1 per year ) and made subsidized and the other one unsubsidized.Why? so I could never re-consolidate soemwhere else-I found out! At the school the financial officer there was a representative from Sallie Mae only. I was given no grace period by Sallie Mae- dispute having to await passing my professional state boards for licensure. I was told to forebear at a significant cost to me. I was married at the time to a fellow student so we had XXXX student loans in effect from Sallie mae. also at the time I had XXXX during my last years of school. My only options were always forbearance- since I was told I did nto qualify for anything else-I had incurred late fees and high interest as result. My original loan was around XXXX that over the years was re-payed at 4-5 times that amount to excessive fees. If I managed to pay twice in one month they advanced the payment instead of applying it to lower my interest and principal. I begged for relief and better programs- daily calling them, and consistently found that what I had agreed to by phone- if I failed to follow up and check- was inaccurate and Not what I agreed to. This created a lot of letters to Sallie Mae in complaints- to no avail. I suffered a XXXX XXXX and again went though their "" relief '' program which was only forbearance and late fees. My XXXX- and so the XXXX benefit I later received from that I later took and paid off Sallie Mae in /around 2010 at XXXX at a time I even had to move into my office since I had no place to live. Because of the financial hardships with Sallie Mae, my marriage also ended. My credit report has been a nightmare and very difficult to correct the mis-information that Sallie Mae provided to the XXXX XXXX. Since it shows late, closed and sold, and multiple Sallie Mae accounts that I have to explain to mortgage companies etc. Thus, I used my XXXX rights to benefit to just pay them off. My credit report shows Multiple accounts with Sallie Mae- errors that I cant get them to correct such as : - ACCOUNT TRANSFERED TO ANOTHER OFFICE- STUDENT LOAN PAYMENT DEFERRED- ACCOUNT TRANSFERRED OR SOLD- CURRENT ACCOUNT this makes up about 30 % of my credit score! I must not be alone in this unfair business practice of Sallie Mae and wanted my voice to be heard."
2030,I missed a payment XX/XX/XXXX and did n't realize it until I received a letter from Navient XX/XX/XXXX. I was unable to make the entire payment at one time so I broke it up into 4 smaller payments and scheduled automatic deductions from my checking account via Navient 's website. I have one more payment left and Navient collectors have started calling my place of employment. Now the owner of the company I work for is questioning me about it.
523,"I had no intention of going to College and feel like I was forced into taking out loans by the recruitment staff at XXXX. I did n't know at the time that the amount of the loans was so much more than other colleges. While attending, I started to realize that I had made a mistake by going there and realized that most of the staff was underqualified. By the time I decided that I wanted to leave, I already owed around $ XXXX and I was n't even going to get a degree if I decided to finish. They were only offering a certificate of completion at the time. This did n't seem fair to me and now my loans are all defaulted and I have no intention of paying them. I feel like I 'm not the only one in this boat and I need help trying to get this resolved. These people really took advantage of me and they are still doing this to people. I had no intention of going to college, so I had n't done any shopping around. They got their hooks in me and before I knew it I was out $ XXXX with nothing to show for it. Please help!"
5938,I am XXXX. I have been struggle to meet the payments since I have XXXX job that I have been working and still struggle to make the full payment. I have call and it take long time because I was using the relay operator.
7609,"I just telephoned Navient a few moments ago. I asked them kindly to remove my mom and my ex-brotherinlaw from my private loans. I also requested they lower my interest rates on all XXXX private loans and to please consolidate my loans into XXXX. They said no they do n't consolidate and refused to lower interest rates or remove my mother and ex-brotherinlaw. I currently owe {$33000.00}. I owe more than I borrowed and this is now the forth time I 've requested assistance from them. They are unhelpful and unyielding assisting. I strongly feel I 'm being taken advantage of. The last time I called to try and lower my payments, they requested my mothers and my ex-brotherinlaws income. I found that awkward and when I asked why, I was informed Navient would have to take into account their income as well, although they are only co-signers."
9934,"I am willing to settle the debt at {$10000.00} under a 24 month payment plan of {$430.00} per month beginning on XXXX XXXX, 2016. I have been paying {$250.00} per month for the past 14 months. XXXX had previously offered to settle at {$15000.00}."
1008,"This is a time sensitive issue. First off, I have a large amount of documents with names, dates, and other details, should you need any of it. Since I only have XXXX characters to work with, I will try and make this as brief as possible. I attended less than 60 % of a clock hour program school in XXXX ( XXXX in XXXX XXXX, NV ). I was barely in school due to a medical emergency that had me on XXXX, going through XXXX, and pending XXXX XXXX XXXX. The doctor said I could XXXX. So with the advisement from the school and the doctors I withdrew. The school stated since I did not complete more than 60 % of the school and considering doctors orders and my situation, that I should withdraw and I would not owe any monies and everything would be cancelled out. The other option was to extend my graduation date, but that would cost another $ XXXX-XXXX, and with my medical condition, they would advise against that and suggested I withdraw. I never heard anything about this debt until XXXX, at which point I disputed the debt with the school and XXXX. I never heard anything after that until XXXX from XXXX and XXXX. I disputed this debt with them and asked them to provide proof I owe this debt, they could n't. Then I heard from General Revenue Corporation in XXXX, and I disputed the debt and asked for proof I owed they debt, they could't either. XXXX contacted me again in XXXX, and I disputed it again. Again, they provided no proof. Then I heard from XXXX XXXX XXXX, and I disputed it with them and they could n't provide proof I owed the debt. Then I disputed it through the Ombudsman Group, Navient, XXXX XXXX, XXXX XXXX, and now XXXX. I have always disputed this debt, stating I never owed any monies. I provided documentation, witness letters, Department of Education documents, XXXX of XXXX XXXX statements, etc and I am still being harassed. I received a letter from DoE in relation to XXXX on XXXX XXXX, XXXX stating I am not in default and the defaulted student loans are paid in full. XXXX XXXX sent me a letter on XXXX XXXX, XXXX and they called me on XXXX XXXX, XXXX. I spoke with XXXX XXXX and let her know this has been disputed, she notated it in the system and I sent a letter to them that week. She stated this account will be on hold while it 's under investigation. Then before they can do their investigation, they illegally took my husbands taxes. We filed a tax allocation form and then I called XXXX XXXX to find out what happened. They said the debt was sold to another company and they can no longer help me. I called Navient and they said it 's now with XXXX. This past week I 've been on the phone with the USA Government, Treasury off set program, Department of Education, Navient, XXXX, XXXX, XXXX, XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX, Lawyers, Legal Assistance, so on and so on. No one can prove I owe this debt. There is only a promissory note, that has XXXX different dates on it, with no fund amount or dates attached to it. I am not disputing that I never attended the school, I am disputing that I did not complete more than 60 % of the school and that the school was suppose to refund any monies they received, and told me I can withdraw and not owe any monies. I have a letter from the school stating they have no record of me ever attending. They could not provide an enrollment contract, academic records, etc. They stated they have no record of me. So I am being harassed and funds illegally taken from my husband for a debt I do not owe and never owed, with no supporting documentation stating I owe it. Yet I have a number of documents and witnesses supporting my claim that I never owed this debt. Please help me as this is time sensitive and has caused an Extreme hardship both financially and medically on my family and I"
5002,"My loan was settled in full with a collection agency on behalf of XXXX/Navient in 2015 with a confirmation settlement in full letter received. 

Navient ( a subsidiary of XXXX ) has forwarded the settled balance to outside collection agencies multiple times to which I have responded multiple times that the account is settled/paid in full and to provide verification of the debt from the original creditor. To date, none has been received but in turn I will receive another letter and/or phone call from a new collection agency within a few months time."
148,"I am contacting you due to several issues with Navient. I took a break from school several years ago. When I took a break I called my loan company to discuss payment options. Over the years I learned that I was never given all of my options to repay. I have a file of late payments due to insufficient payment options that worked for me. After some time I was told about the deferment program which I am currently on. I have not been able to renew on time every year because Navient never contacts me in advance to renew before the deferment ends. I have been on the program for years and the renewal is never updated on time. I have contacted Navient so many times since I am still unemployed with XXXX children. I even consolidated my loans because I did n't know what else to do. I 'm unhappy when I look at my credit report and Navient still shows all the old accounts separately when though the loans have all been consolidated. I 'm so lost and broke. I research to learn how to handle my loans on my own since Navient customer service is n't all that great. With no income how can I afford over {$700.00} a month in student loans alone. How can I feed my children? We have been homeless several times but Navient does n't care. I should be halfway done with 10 years with the IBR but does it count if I do n't renew on time? Is this Navients way of keeping me in a hole and preventing me from reducing my debt by end of year 10? Is there someone else I can talk to? Will the other accounts be removed from my credit report since I consolidated my loans? Is there any help for individuals with children, no job, bouncing from house to house just to make it? Now they are being sued because others are experiencing the same issue nationwide. How will this affect me?"
8329,"My loan is with Sallie Mae. I have an ongoing, terrible situation with Sallie Mae private loan department. I have spoken to several different customer advocates who have been able to help some but the last one I spoke with les me astray and now Sallie Mae says I owe {$800.00} immediately which I do not have. 

I took a private loan in XXXX 2013 so I could finish XXXX school and my father in law cosigned. Ever since my loan has graduated from the grace period, Sallie Mae always calls and harrasses my cosigner and NEVER contacts me. I have to speak with the customer advocate who has helped with payments but never handles the issue of my cosigner receiving XXXX % of calls and mailings. I have yet to receive anything. 

I have used my forbearance time and am having trouble paying. My husband has been out of work and we have recently moved to take new jobs and our income has yet to catch up. My cosigner is in poor health and does not work. I spoke with a customer advocate who said I could sign up for an income based plan which would take my payments from {$210.00} to {$68.00} which is much more doable. And would erase my late fees once I made three payments. I spent over an hour on the phone with her going over my financials, as did my cosigner. She then called back the next day and said she had to forward to financial for approval and asked me to go over my financials again saying that because I had a monthly deficit that financial would not approve me and we should try to change some things. I was confused and worried because neither myself or my cosigner have available funds. She said she would call the next day. We also set up two years of payments at the {$68.00} amount. 

It took her four days and when she called back she was very curt and said financial said between me and my cosigner we made too much for the income based and the payment would stand at {$210.00} and we owed {$800.00} back payment. She could not extend the amount or help with any postponement of payments. She also never addressed the problem of the reps calling and threatening the cosigner. 

I am really at a loss now. I do not have {$800.00} to get caught up and neither does the cosigner. I can pay the {$68.00} if I can get the income based payments. When I signed on originally I was told the payment was {$25.00} a month while in school and payments would be calculated once I graduated. One month they took {$25.00} and the next {$210.00} without warning or notice ( I was on automatic payments then ). 

I want a company where I can call and get solutions. Not rude customer service agents or advocates who ask me to change financials and then do not get approved."
2822,"I have tried to get my student loan servicer, Pennsylvania Higher Education Assistance, to apply my payments to the Public Service Loan Forgiveness program. Their Ombudsman was able to find XXXX payments that qualify but only payments from XXXX XXXX. The previous payments another servicer are not considered "" Qualifying Payments '' I made XXXX payments between XXXX XXXX and XXXX XXXX and would those credited towards my XXXX qualifying payments. The payments were made per these requirements : Must have been made after XXXX XXXX, XXXX Must be on-time ( no later than 15 days after the scheduled due date ) Must be made each month, satisfying in full the installment amount due for that month Must be made when the loan is not in a default status Please contact the servicer and have them apply payments as per the law. 
Thank you"
2092,Navient student loan company has been calling me XXXX 4 times a day regarding a loan I co-signed for someone. It 's very irritating. They call with different phone no. 's
2952,"My credit score is materially lower due to the fact that the average age of my accounts is misleadingly low. XX/XX/XXXX accounts have an aggregate age of ~8 years ; however, given that my graduate loan account with Nelnet is split into XXXX "" accounts '', my aggregate account age is 4.1 years. If these accounts only showed up once ( as I feel is more truthful - XXXX loan provider, for XXXX XXXX degree ), my aggregate account age would be ~5.4 years. This increase, according to XXXX XXXX, would move me from "" poor '' to "" fair '' in terms of average account age. I would like this to be updated so my credit score does n't reflect a misleadingly low average account age."
9925,The Williams and Fudge is trying to collect a debt from the school XXXX XXXX of XXXX. I do not owe that money because the XXXX XXXX schools are being shut down due to multiple accounts of predatory lending and usage of high - pressure tactics to increase enrollment. Over half of these schools are already closed.
1928,"I graduated college in XX/XX/XXXX. Through the past years I had trouble paying my monthly payments for the loans. I did deferments and forebearances throughout the years while I went to XXXX in the XXXX. I graduated in XX/XX/XXXX. I am not a XXXX though now. .My student Loan provider was XXXX and then changed to Navient. Since XX/XX/XXXX, I have made payments every month with a couple of late ones but always paid the amount owed. I have made a total payments of around XXXX dollars but yet my principal balance has not gone down at all. I do n't understand how this can be. I do n't know why some of my payments are not going toward the principal balance. All I have been doing is paying interest or something. I heard there is some lawsuit. Do I get to be a part of that or how do I join that lawsuit against this company? Please help!"
5932,"Sallie mae is very sneaky, I thought I had rights that I did not have based on sneaky advertising practices, I was not aware they could collect debt even if I was still in school or collect debt while I was out of work. They would never work with me or set up a resonable payment plan because I was n't a "" govt. '' loan. I was very confused about my rights and would have never gotten the loan if I had known I did n't have the rights. Also they sold my loan to a collection agency something I was not aware they could do."
4621,"I am XXXX. I submitted an application to which they acknowledge my circumstances. Their solution is that I transfer the loan to my cosigner. Additionally, they have stated that the loan is in the name of my cosigner, without me or my cosigner having agreed to this action. Now despite us making payments that we can not afford, they are constantly calling to harass with robocalls."
7139,"I received a letter stating that my loans were going to be going up tremendously but if I called, Navient would work with me so my loans would be affordable. I worked on this with a representative from Navient whom stated that she could only help me by extending the life of my loan and a payment of {$300.00} a month, which is a hardship still on my part however, she offered to set up biweekly payments and stated that my monthly payment as well as my future payments would be $ 305 monthly for the duration of the loans which would be until XXXX. On XXXX XXXX, XXXX my XXXX XXXX XXXX grandfather who is the consigner of my loans received a phone call stating my loans would go into default if He or myself did n't pay {$12.00} and would n't be able able to be dropped off as the cosigner. He called me upset and after work I reached a Navient rep. I asked questions like : how can {$12.00} put me into default when I 'm paying you {$300.00} a month?, how do I owe {$12.00} now when you set up the payments? Why was n't I notified by mail or phone and if you called there was never a voicemail? How come my grandfather gets calls and notifications by mail and I get nothing? This rep stated that they can only leave voicemails during certain hours due to managers being available, my response was then call me during those hours. He stated that he was n't sure why my grandfather was being notified and I was n't. He also stated that the person who talked to my grandfather should n't have told him that my loans would go into default if the {$12.00} was n't paid but said something in effect of, Do you think because of his age he might have misunderstood the person whom he talked to? This I did take offense too and my reply was, "" Excuse me but my grandfather does n't have XXXX, XXXX XXXX, nor is he hard of hearing and he is probably more with it than you are '' The Navient rep I talked to also stated that the Navient rep that called my grandfather "" was just trying to squeeze a payment out of him ''. He also stated with how the payments are set up it triggered during this billing cycle and I did n't owe anything. At the end of the conversation I told the rep that I wanted to be notified first of anything because ultimately I am paying the loans not my grandfather, I wanted to be notified through the XXXX Mail as he is. He then made sure all my contact information was up to date and which it was. I also requested that Navient needed to get their information to coincide with the payment plan that they had set up for me. And that they contact me first about these loans. In the end he apologized for what had happened and would write a complaint form and would send it over to the complaint department. I apologized for the frustration as well. Then on XXXX XXXX, XXXX I noticed I had a voicemail. It was a voicemail from Navient. I called them back talked with a lady and explained I was not late on payments to check the note from last night, she said then disregard it. I then requested to speak with a manager. A manager got on phone and stated the payments would fluctuate and I was misinformed. I told him what happened previous night again his response was I was misinformed and would need to set up another payment of {$10.00} biweekly to cover the fluctuating costs. I stated I have talked with multiple people from your company and they all have told me different answers, why? He stated that they will educate their staff on this. I stated I was also in XXXX and work at a XXXX & asked him where was the professionalism within the company. He stated his staff would again be educated on it. I told him that I expected him to follow through with all my concerns and if he did n't that I would go above him. Later that evening I called back to set up the additional payments and requested to talk to him he never came to phone another rep took my information. Navient=hard to work with"
1933,"Navient has taken auto debated from my account for two months after payoff of my Federal Direct student loans. The first withdraw was after full payment, the second withdrawal was after auto withdraw enrollment had ended. Navient also adjusted a balance onto the account at the time of the second withdrawal XXXX XXXX documents signed and returned. Checks for {$120000.00} sent to Navient XXXX Navient posted the received amount with resulting {$89.00} credit ( Date of zero balance ) All loans posted correctly. 
XXXX Navient initiated auto withdrawal of {$1900.00} from Savings Acc. ( Should have not been withdrawn ) After calling in, the rep. stated that the payment would be reversed and that the money should be going back to the savings acct. Agent of Navient suggested contacting bank. 
XXXX XXXX, payment reversal of XXXX posted to account. 
XXXX XXXX bank stated there was no indication of payment reversal. Explained the situation to the bank, Funds refunded. Stop Hold placed on account. 
XXXX Navient posted new balance of XXXX, backdated to XXXX, no capitalized interest as of XXXX, but now earning interest. 
XXXX Navient initiated auto withdrawl of XXXX from Savings account without permission and without being enrolled in auto withdrawal. 
Navient claimed the XXXX withdrawal was blocked, my bank claims the money has already transferred to Navient. 
I 'm asking that Navient send a payment in full letter dated for XXXX/XXXX/2016 per payoff date. I 'm asking for XXXX payed per overpayment. In addition, I demand quick response and return of the funds amounting to XXXX taken without permission or authorization."
2356,"All of my student loans have been discharged so all "" open '' or "" closed '' balances should be XXXX"
6844,"For the past 3 years I have been trying to pay my student loan from Navient. Some months I would pay twice to try to bring down my principle. Over the course of the three years, I have not been able to bring down the principle at all. It 's actually gone up. I would like to know why when I pay double one month that second payment is n't added directly to the principle? It 's very frustrating to have this happen time and time again. Only to have to talk with Navient ask them to do it and once, I put a double payment on and the same thing happens."
4557,"I was promised a job upon Graduation. Did nothing to help me get a job, they told me that i would be paying loan back based on job in my field."
8097,I have bank statements showing were I paid my XXXX XXXX private student loans serviced under AES ( American education services ). XXXX 2016. I received a 30 day late payment report on my credit by the XXXX credit agencies. I was granted a short term payment in XXXX 2016 for 6 months. The payment plan allows me to pay half of the XXXX private loans I have outstanding. My payments are due on the XXXX of each month. I have paid each month on time. My short term payment is now up and I am back to paying the full amount or each loans. I am not sure why they have reported that I was 30 days late when they took the money from my account.
1360,"I was notified by Department of Ed ( XXXX sent them information ) that I was receiving a forgiveness for student loan from XXXX and Navient because I have been getting a XXXX payment of {$560.00} p/mo for a number of years due to XXXX. 

While XXXX canceled my payment and refunded my money sent to them since XXXX 2017, Navient did not and continues to bill and acrue interest with no acknowledgement of any kind. I did list them on the sheet from Department of Ed because it is a FFELP student loan. 

I hope you can help me with this dilemma because this loan is climbing much higher instead of decreasing and I can not work."
9174,"My past students loans were all discharged and I have it in writing by the US Dept of Education/Nelnet XXXX unit. Yet they are harassing me demanding I pay the student loans in full and threatening to garnish my wages. US Dept Education XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX, NE XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX"
345,I was never told when my forbearance was up. I happened to look at my credit score and seen how low it dropped. I had late payments and I did n't know payments were due. I have tried several times to put my loans in Income based repayment but the rep kept sufficient me up for forbearance. While in forbearance my loan gained an astronomical amount of interstate.
8149,"Received XXXX separate calls from Citibank Student over the weekend regarding a past due balance. A past due balance, that was a mistake made by Citibank Student Loans and the second time this mistake was made When my wife spoke to them, they refused to give her information, despite her being authorized. The representative was pushy, repeatedly requesting payment immediately. She did give her ID # when she spoke. She did not care when we mentioned that the past due balance was an error on the part of Citibank, still requesting payment. We asked for a call back number which she did not want to give and continued to request payment. When she finally gave it, the number to call back brought us to the system and we were informed the offices were closed. They requested personal information that did not seem secure. 
Now, we were able to call back and speak to a representative when they were open. We were informed that they had no control over when people were called and that the staff were told to call and they did so and this was their policy. 
This balance had been "" past due '' for less than a week and there had been no email notification or mailing. We received an email today almost a week after the phone calls were received. Further the phone calls were over the weekend ( XXXX ) and repeated. This is excessive, bordering on harassment, especially in light of the whole situation being a result of an inability to process a check correctly and follow the directions on it for a second time."
3154,"I currently have many student loans, all through Great Lakes loan ( GLL ) services. I have been overpaying my loans to more quickly pay them off. According to great lakes loan ; "" The regular monthly payment goes first to accrued interest, and then is prorated over the loans within the account. If your payment is larger than the regular monthly payment, the overpayment is applied to the principal on the loan with the higher interest rate, assuming all outstanding accrued interest is paid. "" When I first setup my account I was asked to setup a monthly auto-pay for a 0.25 % interest deduction. I of course did so. This auto-pay is assumes a default "" 10-year '' repayment plan. What I have been doing is making extra payments 1-2 times a month in excess of {$1000.00}. Using their phone app everything looked like it was going well. I then logged onto their website and saw a discrepancy. GLL has been taking my extra payments and applying them equally across all of my loans, not to the ones with the highest interest, like initially thought. After contacting GLL they informed me that the statement above only holds true if I overpay via the "" monthly payment '' not the "" one time payment ''. This is purely a ploy to not pay off my highest interest loans and keep me on as long as possible. Their statement says nothing about a "" one time payment '' exception. When i called them out on it they replied with ; "" We are happy to reapply any additional payments as you direct, assuming all accrued interest has been paid, although it is necessary for you to submit a request via email or phone after each payment is made in order for us to do so. Thus, it is generally to your benefit for you to make a single, larger payment at the time you make your regular monthly payment, rather than to make a separate, extra payment after making your regular payment. '' How does this make any sense? why would they be treated any differently? I have to contact them after each "" one time payment '' to tell then to put it towards my highest interest loans ...? I have been repaying my loans now for 2 years and could have avoided hundreds of dollars of interest if they had done what they said they did with overpayments. which is what a "" one time payment '' is, regardless of whether it is part of the standard monthly payment or not."
5761,"I was recently a victim of an identity theft. My bank account associated with direct debit for my student loan ( AES ) was emptied out and it had to be on a freeze. While my account was on hold, direct debit was rejected and I was hit with a late fee. I contacted AES to explain my situation and to have them reverse this fee but, they refused. I was never late once for over 10 years and I could not believe they would not waive a small penalty due for my uncontrollable circumstances."
8772,"I borrowed money from XXXX XXXX to attend college and for about 6 months I 've been trying to have my payment lowered since neither my co-signer or I can afford them. They offered me XXXX paths : to lower my interest rate or extend the loan life. They said I would have a hard time qualifying for either since my loan was unfer 30,000 and under 9 years long. The first time I called in, they said since my account was current, they could n't do it until I had a payment due. Then I called back in the next month and they had raised my interest rate! If I did lower my interest rate, it would just take me bqack down to my original payments, which I could n't afford! So they got all of my information, income records from both myself and cosigner, and they tried to lower my interest rate AND extend the life of my loan, but said I had to wait to see if I was approved but they needed to set up automatic payments in case I was. Then my cosigner called in and they said they had enrolled me but I had missed a payment. I had set up automatic payments and they NEVER debited my account. 

They are a bunch of liars who NEVER follow through and when they see that you are trying to pursue lowering your payment, they hike your interest rate up."
6927,"I have been paying XXXX for two years on a student loan debt that is owned by Navient. XXXX has been miscalculating my payments and not applying my payments correctly to the alleged balance which is a flagrant violation of the Fair Debt Collections Practices Act. XXXX has been adding interest to the balance which is also a violation of the Fair Debt Collections Practices Act. 

I would be willing to settle the student loan debt for {$5000.00}. Navient had offered a settlement agreement of about {$10000.00} more than 6 months ago. I have been making monthly payments throughout this time to XXXX, including after Navient offered that settlement agreement. I would be willing to settle the debt for {$5000.00} as I have already paid Navient XXXX of dollars over the past two years. 
During the past 4 years I have filed multiple written complaints and have copies of, against Navient and their debt collectors for flagrant violations of the Fair Debt Collections Practices Act. 

I would be willing to settle the debt for {$5000.00}. I have been making payments to XXXX for two years each month even while experiencing tremendous financial difficulties. I would need the settlement confirmation in writing from Navient. In addition, before FAMS I also paid another debt collector that Navient had hired to collect on the debt, XXXX of dollars. The only reason Navient switched from the old debt collector to XXXX was because the old debt collector flagrantly violated the Fair Debt Collections Practices Act, which is something that FAMS has also done. I would be willing to settle the debt for {$5000.00}."
7663,"I have been pushed into multiple forbearances and now that those are over, Navient refuses to offer any type of relief. I can not pay my loans without sacrificing the well-being of my family. I work two jobs to make ends meet as it is and Navient absolutely refuses to help in any way. I am on a standard repayment plan. My balance is a little over {$13000.00} and my repayment amount is over {$350.00}. My interest rate is stuck at XXXX % and has risen on multiple occasions. Navient will not lower the rate, change my term, or assist in any way. When I tell them that I can not pay, they do not care. They inform me that there is no way to get out of this loan and they will get their money. 

I am not trying to skirt my responsibilities as a borrower. I am simply burdened by mounting medical bills that are severely reducing my ability to pay. Additionally, I paid a {$100.00} fee to place my loans in forbearance in XX/XX/2016. Navient then reported my payments as more than 60 days late in XX/XX/2016. This caused my credit score to tank. This, in turn, has raised my car insurance rate, my mortgage insurance rate, and my credit card rates. I am being screwed over by Navient."
901,"I have been trying to get Nelnet to properly update my loan to reflect my changed income. I have been trying to get this resolved since XX/XX/XXXX. I have spoken not only to various representatives but a supervisor and the solutions center. Instead of resolving the issue they keep asking for the same info I have already sent which I resend anyway. In addition, they have had me capitalize the interest due to their errors. I have not been able to get consistent answers. This has been a problem for 3 years now."
2772,My student loan is reporting to the three credit agencies and I did not give permission
3376,"I applied and received an income-driven payment plan for my student loans, which should have applied to all of them ... the adjusted payment should currently be {$0.00} ... Navient is trying to charge me {$200.00} per month still"
8177,"XX/XX/2014, I paid the student loans, for the amount of {$9000.00}. Citizens bank, told me that they will communicate withXXXX to clear my credit report, my {$9000.00}. cashiers check wascashed by the citizens bank, but they did not informed XXXX, Ihope that, they should be investigated, because they are damageiging my credit report to the XXXX agency 's."
9112,"I received a letter from GC Services Limited Partnership stating that they had been retained by the Dept. of Education to collect on a defaulted student loan. As I have not been in school since XXXX and never taken out a student load, you can imagine my surprise in receiving such a letter. I have been in contact with the Dept. of Education and their Ombudsman and they both indicate that I have never taken out a student loan. I have been in contact with the Company and have reason to believe that they maybe fraudulent."
2971,"In general, my greivances stem from the way Navient and XXXX XXXX have been handling my loans, in particular the capitalized interest on these loans. After reviewing my loan history, a few discussions we collegues in simliar situations, I came to the conclusion some of their practices are more than likely costing borrowers hundreds, if not thousands of dollars per year. In my case, right after college, like many other borrowers, I was n't in a position to make payments on my loans. So, like others, I took advantage of the forebearance terms. Now that I 'm in a position to tackle them, I realized that they more than once, altered the dates so that there would a lapse in my forebearance, which forces the interest on these loans to be capitalized. For example : A borrow requests forbearance for 6 months ending on XXXX XXXX, knowing that the interest will be capitalized at the end of this period, the borrower calls to request an extension of this forebearance before the period end date. In the perfect world the request is granted and the borrower has another chance to pay off the interest before it becomes apart of the principal. In my case this is exactly what happened but instead of processing the request prior to the period end date they have either been setting the start of the extension after the XXXX or simply not processing the extension at all. Or not processing the request at all. Increasing the amount I have to pay over the life of the loan. I did n't request adjustments in the past because I assumed these errors were my fault. When I called this past month and made them aware of the mistake, they agreed to the adjustment but forgot to adjusted my XXXX federal loan. When I called back the next day to state that they only made the adjustments on my department of eduaction loans, they gave me multiple excuses as to why an adjustment could not be made. XXXX of which was clearly a flat out lie, was that the interest is capitalized every quarter. The terms clearly state that interest will be capitalized : 1. When the loan enters repayment. 
2. When a deferment ends. 
3. When forbearance ends. 
4. When the loan defaults 5. A change in repayment plan. 
6. Loan consolidation. 
No where does it state that the interest is capitalized every quarter. I heard this from multiple navient employees which leads me to believe that this was not simply a one-time mistake by an incompetent employee. After being placed on hold for more than XXXX mins they peddled the same croocked excuse, this time by a senior XXXX XXXX XXXX could not at the company. As if she would be some how more convincing. I 'll admit that I was somewhat rude and for that I sincerly apologize. When the incompentence or negligence is consistent, it starts to seem somewhat deliberate. When we 're given excuses that do not seem valid like "" the interest capitalizes every quarter '', it seems criminal. I made multiple requests for the transcripts of my calls to XXXX and Navient. In an effort to confirm that I made the error of not making those requests for extensions before capitalization occured, or simply, requesting the wrong date were my fault. They were denied. Based on my experience with these intermediaries, and the ongoing issues with the way they 've been treating our veterans, even if nothing comes of my requests for investigation, at least please consider suggesting to congress to remove them from this process as a whole. If they tried to take advantage of me via capitalization, there 's a chance they 're making the same "" mistakes '' with other distressed borrowers. Removing them from the process will be beneficial to borrowers and the federal government. Thank you for your time. : )"
5582,"I called Sallie Mae to try and get options for repaying my student loans. Currently, I am unable to pay them, as they are over half my monthly salary. I am trying to do the right thing, but they are not willing to work with me for repayment. I want my student loans completely erased."
5791,"Fair debt collect practices, the company Navient has abused several articles by contacting several people outside of the persons on the account in attempts of collection. I filed for forbearance in XXXX of XXXX and was granted until XXXX of XXXX but they have constantly been calling members of my family and friends that I do n't know how they got their phone numbers and information because my name and mothers name are the only ones on the loans. And the practices calling and telling people that it is a emergency that they speak with after my forbearance was approved there was not need to speak with them. But just practices of attempting to collect on the debt are not within the rules of the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act."
6651,"I graduated college and my payments started at $ XXXX month with a 9.25 % interest rate. I have paid on time every month since, except one time when I paid 3 days after my due date due to my finances. I called a week ahead and spoke with a service rep who stated it was not an issue and that I would n't be late because of my grace period. Within 2 days, they called me and my grandparents 8 times in 1 day. I called and asked them why they were harassing me when I was n't even late and had spoken with their rep prior stating I 'd definitely have it paid within the week it was due. They said they call everyone at that rate and when I told them I was starting to have financial trouble because my payment is so high, they offered no help. I then asked about my interest rate because it had gone up to 9.625 % and they offered no help there as well. I told them I really wanted at least my interest rate lowered if both were n't possible so I could really start paying off my loan and they rudely told me I needed to pay more than the minimum due to make that happen. HOW CAN A PERSON OUT OF COLLEGE AFFORD MORE THAN {$800.00}? They are completely greedy and unreasonable. They will not lower my payment or my interest rate based on my income. I have called multiple times as I am going through financial difficulties and do n't want to default on my loans, but they are less than helpful. Im not calling saying I ca n't pay. I genuinely want to keep paying on my loan, but I do n't know how much longer I can afford this payment and I am afraid of defaulting and getting harassing phone calls everyday."
3052,"I have a direct consolidation loan serviced by Navient. When I consolidated in 2013, I elected the income based repayment plan ( IBR ) and have complied with the loan terms and annual recertification requirements. When the subsidized portion of my loan became ineligible for interest subsidy after 3 years, Navient failed to notify me. I expect my student loan servicer to work with and not against me, and to keep me abreast of upcoming changes or deadlines that affect repayment. Luckily, with all of the recent scrutiny Navient has received, I logged into my account to review my loans and saw the accrued interest that I had become responsible for some months earlier. Navient 's failure to alert me to significant changes to my account speaks only to Navient 's blatant disregard for its stated purpose and usefulness as a loan servicer helping people with their financial goals. 

Magazine subscribers, for instance, are reminded months in advance that their subscription will be ending soon so that they can act accordingly ; why would n't my student loan servicer offer me the same level of courtesy and support for my larger sum financial expenditure as my magazine subscription company does for an expenditure much smaller?"
977,Please correct wrong report from Sallie Mae and SLM. I have requested MANY times!
6005,"I graduated with a XXXX from XXXX of the top XXXX in the country in fall of 2008 with a high GPA. Upon graduation, I had over {$130000.00} in combined private loans and federal loans. The admission counselors at the for-profit college where I received my degree told me that they had a strong job matching program for their graduates. They told me before I took out the loans to attend the college, that they would help me find a job upon graduation. When I was in my last few semesters before graduating, the director of the career development office discouraged me from seeking internships outside of career development office, and to only focus on the internships through the school program. I realized after applying to multiple internships through the college and not receiving any internship offers while in college, that I had been given terrible advice by the college. Since I graduated in 2008, I have applied to XXXX of internships and jobs. I have not received any offers for internships, part-time jobs, or full-time positions for what I have a degree in, a XXXX. I have only been able to find work in my field as an occasional XXXX, and that is rare. I have been forced to find work as a part-time XXXX while I continue to broaden my skills in XXXX and other talents. I have been unable to afford to pay any of my federal loans, private loans or interest back other than the occasional {$30.00} per month, which I ca n't even afford. I am bombarded by student loan debt collector calls daily, and I do n't know what to do. I truly feel that I should not have been able to get approved for such high loans to attend the college where I graduated from. I also feel that my school mislead me and gave me false information about it 's graduates success rate in finding work in their field. I feel lied to by my college, mislead and sold a fantasy in order to have students pay their massive tuition. For the past 6 years after graduating I have been struggling just to pay my rent and basic needs, when if I had been hired for full-time work in my field, I could be contributing to improving the economy. Our president should bailout our students who have a large amount of student loan debt by ( forgiving a great percentage of student loan debt ). Especially for students that graduated shortly before and after the great recession began in 2008. The president bailed out the banks and XXXX XXXX financial leaders, who are now becoming even more wealthy and powerful. Our government has done nothing of significance to help the students with debt to rebound from the fall of our economy. If student loan debt was forgiven in large part, I believe that our middle class would grow stronger again. Because there is no real student loan forgiveness policy in place, the struggling graduates continue to struggle and the banks and the top % XXXX get wealthier. When I took out my student loans before and during my degree program, the economy was doing great. I graduated at the worst possible time, and now I 'm suffering because I worked hard in college and received my degree. I would have never took out large loans, if I had known how difficult it would be to find work in my field. I need help and I do n't know where to turn. Any advice on what to do to find student loan debt relief would be greatly appreciated. 

Thank you, Struggling College Graduate"
9252,"Dear Sir or Madam of the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, I am requesting assistance in resolving previously disputed accounts with ECMC that have remained unresolved for over two years. I have previously disputed these XXXX accounts to no avail through the CRA dispute process. ECMC continues to confirm and report the wrong date of first default. I have a total of XXXX accounts that were sent to ECMC from the original creditor ( XXXX now XXXX ) on XXXX/XXXX/XXXX. XXXX no longer operates. I have requested ECMC to correct my "" date of first default '' to the correct date provided to me by the original creditor ( see attached ). In another attempt to correct the information, I contacted ECMC on XXXX/XXXX/XXXX around XXXX am to request they update all of my credit reports with the correct date of XXXX/XXXX/XXXX. I was told by a CSR that "" they do not have the date of first default in their system and they ( ECMC ) are using the date they received the account as the date of first default. I told the CSR for ECMC that the date they are sending is incorrect and provided the correct date and was told they "" have no way to verify that '' and it would stay as is regardless of my paperwork. In turn on XXXX/XXXX/XXXX at XXXX PST, I spoke with a customer service representative for original holder ( XXXX ) with an employee ID of XXXX and requested documentation to confirm the date the account first went delinquent. On XXXX/XXXX/XXXX I received written confirmation from XXXX that in fact the date the accounts first went delinquent was XXXX/XXXX/XXXX not the date of XXXX/XXXX/XXXX that ECMC has been reporting since XXXX/XXXX/XXXX. I requested that ECMC remove all XXXX of these accounts from all of my credit reports as they stated they were unable to verify the correct DOFD and stated they "" use the day the receive the account as the DOFD '' in credit reporting. 

I ask that the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection address these FCRA violations. I also request that ECMC remove all XXXX accounts from all credit reporting agencies as they continue to violate FCRA. Attached you will find the written confirmation of the correct DOFD for all XXXX accounts and the XXXX trade lines as they appear on my report. I ask and pray for assistance as this causes stress and harm to me."
3000,"I have about {$15000.00} in Stafford Loans that are serviced by FedLoan Servicing. In the past year, I have had a series of negative experiences with this provider. Most recently, I wanted to use part of an XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX pay off an unsubsidized loan which totaled just over {$2400.00} with unpaid interest included. My education award was over {$5000.00} so I requested {$2400.00} be sent to FedLoan Servicing with explicit instructions that the money first go towards my unsubsidized loan with the remaining amount going towards another loan. They failed to follow these instructions at all, instead applying the {$2400.00} to all of my loans. I wanted the unsubsidized one targeted because it has the highest interest rate. 

This is in addition to enrollment issues I had to work through during the spring and summer. It started XX/XX/XXXX when I received an email saying I would need to start making payments on my loans. This surprised me quite a bit because I was in graduate school, which should have put all of my loans in deferment. FedLoan Servicing told me that they did not have any verification that I was enrolled in school, and that my school 's Office of the Registrar should send in an enrollment verification form. In the meantime, they put my loans on a one-month forbearance. One month later, I received another email saying I would have to start making payments on loans. FedLoan servicing told me that they did not receive the form. My school 's Office of the Registrar confirmed to me that they did, and offered to fax another copy. This copy was not received either, nor was the following copy. Finally, I asked what I should do differently since what I was doing clearly was n't working, and FedLoan Servicing told me I could upload a document directly to my account, which I did and it was processed. This was the exact form my school had sent three times, all of which were misplaced by FedLoan Servicing. 

Overall, I have become rather displeased with the quality of service I am receiving from FedLoan Servicing. It 's to the point where anytime I want to interact with them, I just assume I 'll have to have multiple conversations with customer representatives to work out mistakes they make."
7022,"I had federal loans and they were sold to a group called Nelnet. Nelnet continually loses my paperwork. Every time I send them my paperwork ( and this is the third time ) it mysteriously vanishes. They send me an email or something in the mail telling me I have an outrageous amount of money due. I call them, fill out the paperwork again, and work out ( or, at least, I thought we had worked out ) a reasonable payment plan. I 'M POOR. I do n't make much money and want to pay my loans back. But Nelnet keeps pulling this - and they 've done it again! I 've sent them my tax information for the third time now and they told me they 'd put me in a payment plan around {$100.00} per month. They just sent me an email saying my next payment would be over {$2000.00}. This is obscene."
7296,"I am currently paying between 7.5 % and 6.25 % interest on my loans. My home is at 3.25 % and I have an asset, what is the asset I received from college? I understand they need to make money, but they were given money at 0 % from the FED and charge me 7 % for something that is helping society if I get a job and pay taxes. This is an issue that must be dealt with."
7113,"I have been paying my student loan and after few years dealing with Firstmark company I am not able to meet the payments amount anymore due to financial hardship. I have used all my forbearance and they have not been able to provide me with any flexible payment options.

My credit score has already been damage and I received calls constantly from them warning abut sending my account to collection. Each single call I received I have tried to arrange manageable payments option but I have not obtained any positive outcomes. I am always dealing with very rude people always threating me"
6874,"navient is unwilling to help reduce loan payments to what is affordable for us. they are rude and just do n't care when you call them. when loan was still with XXXX XXXX the helped us with an interest reduction program so that the monthly payments were more affordable, but now that they are navient they WO N'T HELP IN ANYWAY! they told my daughter that because she owns a savings account she does n't qualify for help. my husband and i pay for these loans and have both retired and are on the "" fixed income '' we CAN NOT AFFORD {$700.00} PER MONTH, IT WAS HARD ENOUGH AT {$550.00} PER MONTH. BUT THEY CAN NOT EVEN BE REASONED WITH."
8127,"After suffering through a period of unexpected unemployment I contacted Navient to attempt to get my loan back on track. I made arrangements to pay via a "" XXXX pay '' program which would put my account back into current status after XXXX scheduled payments. I gave them my bank account information and assumed that that would be the end of it. 

The next day I started receiving phone calls saying that something had gone wrong. I was finally able to get in touch with them again the next week. I was told that the automatic payment needed to be setup again, so I did. The automatic payment apparently failed again, and I started receiving calls from them about this a couple weeks later. I know that the account information I provided was correct and there were funds in the account at the time. 

I suffered another financial set-back that put my bank account into overdraft shortly afterwards, so i had to wait to weather that before contacting them again. 

I tried calling back as soon as I knew when I had the funds available but I was told that unless I made a payment that day of XXXX $ XXXX would not be able to prevent litigation. I was then forwarded to a "" XXXX '' who was extraordinarily rude and confrontational. I explained the fact that my autopsy had failed for unknown reasons and that 's i could make a payment in XXXX weeks. In response she accused me of fraudulently providing them an incorrect bank account number or not having funds in my account. She continued to berade me for my inability to "" balance my checkbook '' even when I explained my financial hardship and recent unemployment and repeatedly accused me of fraud. When I requested to speak with her XXXX or any other superior she refused to allow me to speak to them and threatened me that they would receive a file on the pending litigation instead the next morning. 

When she did nothing other than continue to yell at me while I attempted to ask her about alternatives to litigation, I hang up and called their customer service number again. I stayed on hold for an hour before I had to hang-up to return to work. 

Navient seems to be unable to accept payments from my bank for unknown reasons, has XXXX who are only interested in berating customers who call to attempt to make their account current, and has wait times that make it impossible to get ahold of them during their office hours without missing work."
545,"XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX To Whom It May Concern, Thank you for taking the time to read this letter. I recently pulled my credit report and found that US Department of Education reported a late payment regarding my account XXXX I am requesting that this late payment be assessed for accuracy. 
I believe this reporting is incorrect because I 've received payment summary for the last 5 years enclosed. I have included the documentation to prove that I made payments during this time / that my loans were in forbearance/deferment and did n't require any payments. 
Please investigate this matter, and if it is found to be inaccurate, remove the lateness from my credit report. 
Thank You. XXXX XXXX Loan Account # XXXX Loan Account # XXXX Correspondence Address Sallie Mae XXXX. XXXX XXXX XXXX, XXXX XXXX Fax : XXXX"
2143,They off set my income tax on a loan I never recieved for {$5000.00} on a {$6000.00} loan. They sent the money back to the school and sent the loan money back to the school 3 months later. They never informed me they were charging me for that loan and I ended up owing {$2000.00} to them for that loan but have no record of who the loan was transferred to in XXXX and why there is a balance owed.
5347,"I have want to remove a co-signer from a private loan that I got through Sallie Mae to go to school and they have refused to do so. I followed THEIR guidelines for doing so by obtaining my degree and sending them a transcript, showing that I am financially able to pay the loan, and made XXXX non XXXX late payments as they requested after my disenrollment. I am not sure what else I am to do if they do not follow their own guidelines. I believe that they, Sallie Mae, for whatever reason are not following their own guidelines in reference to my account. I have no issue with continuing my agreement without my co-signer and I am unsure why Sallie Mae has not allowed me to remove the co-signer as the reason to have a cosigner is for that fact of being financially secure. Also on a side not they apply a {$10.00} charge to my account if I make my payments one or more days past the payment due date. For example the payment is due on the XXXX of every month, if I make a payment on the XXXX I incur the fee, which is fine as a business practice but I am unsure if because of that they are unable/unwilling to remove my cosigner. I have made no XXXX late payments to Sallie Mae and that is reflected in my credit reports as well. I seek to remove my co-signer because when my account does come due on the XXXX, they begin calling my co-signers home and work multiple time a day after he has asked them to stop, it places an undue hardship on my co-signer being on the loan. I understand that I must make an effort to make MY payments on or before the due date but also according to "" standard late '' guidelines I am not late. As I said I am not 30, 90, or 120 late to Sallie Mae therefore I am unsure why they prey on my co-signer as they do. To reiterate the point I followed THEIR guidelines and would like my co-signer removed."
8289,"I called my Student Loan company Navient today because I wanted to ask about how to pay off my loan in full. I needed to also turn off my automatic payment which would come out of my bank on the XX/XX/XXXX to avoid over payment. I was told I would need to shut off my auto pay online only. I said I would send in the full amount for XXXX private loans adding up to over {$19000.00}. I was told I needed to sign in online. I just wanted address so my bank could send the payment correctly. 

I am on XXXX and have a lump sum settlement from my XXXX. Anyways when I checked online, it shows my federal loans paid off which is correct but my private loans are no where to be found. I have a XXXX balance with Navient. What my loans are being moved? No contact, not even told this on the phone. 

So how do I get the loans paid off, I do not want those automatic payments coming out of my account I notified them in time to stop them before the XX/XX/XXXX. I want to be done with this craziness. Ugh! Hate this company, horrible to work with, horrible customer service. Was never like this with XXXX. Can you help me find my loans? I am sure you will be better help they their are! I have another small XXXX with another company XXXX something or another for just over {$700.00}. I sure hope I can pay that off with out a hassle. I just want to pay it off so that my XXXX income can just go to meds, doctor bills, food, and XXXX rent. Imagine this I want to pay them completely off and they did not have the decency to tell on the phone they have been moved elsewhere? No go fight with their horrible website to then find out that you can not shut off the automatic payment. Guess I am calling the credit unit to stop the transfers. Horrible company. 

P.S. My father is retired XXXX, and a co-signer. He took me back in when I became too sick with XXXX 's XXXX. I just want to break free from these loans so that they do not impact his retirement or credit. It will give me piece of mind after I move into XXXX housing next month."
9298,"Pioneer calls me every single day including weekends. Some days they call XXXX three times. They have called after XXXX. These are robo-calls with the message to "" wait for a representative tative. ''"
1094,I was not clearly explained the interest and the details on the forbearance. I was given bad information about my loan repayment and was told that it could not be consolidated and that the interest rates would continue and that i did not have to make any payments. I was not told correct information about my loan.
1872,Cant pay my loan back
2918,I attended XXXX XXXX XXXX this college cost me several thousands of dollars. I did not receive the help or internships as promised. I would contact the college on several occasions and each time I had a new student advisor. I was always told the previous person had found another job. I was unable to find any jobs in my area for the degree I obtained. At this point the degree has become useless. I 'm stuck with a hefty bill I will never be after to repay and I think the Loans should be discharged. The college lost there accredation and has since then been reported as closed and was under investigation for several things.
5807,"These loans in which my parents and I thought to be much like the federal loans were very deceiving. At this time, the interest rates that I have reviewed have more than tripled the amount in which I borrowed. The biggest issues is that my family and I can not make the payments at this time. I have tried to get them to help out, but it is apparent that they can not reduce my payment any lower. I suggest that no one use PRIVATE STUDENT LOANS."
9651,"In addition to constantly calling me up to 14 times a day and up to 9 calls in a 15 minute period, they have contacted my sisters, mother, best friend, brother-in-law multiple times. It got to the point where my friend and relatives had to tell Navient they had never heard of me to get the phone calls to stop. 

Even after I tried to explain to Navient 's representatives about my dire financial situation, they said they were trying to give me a good deal, but I needed to be more flexible. One such proposal by them, suggested I pay XXXX % of the balance ( balance about {$200000.00} ) and then I would qualify for a monthly payment. At the time I had told them, I had been homeless, XXXX, unemployed, behind on my monthly bills and near having my car repossessed. 

I even sent them a letter to get the calls to stop and to stop contacting third parties. I offered a payment of {$40.00} a month, which would have been a struggle and they did not acknowledge the offer. Instead they said we need to discuss this in calm, adult manner."
6179,"I am set up on a rate reduction plan where XXXXNavient auto drafts their payment from my checking account. The payment amount is XXXX from my account is. For the last statement that I received, there 's a late payment charge on there. I 've never been late on an auto draft .... I am under the suspicion that they are trying to sneak in fees to further inflate what I owe. Also, my billing statements do n't seem to add up. Online it shows no more than XXXX or so but I 'm being drafted for about 4 times as much. I understand that paying more will help pay this down but I am already struggling to make these types of payments with my wage. 

They started me on this program last year and it seemed to take a while to kick in. When I called to ask, they gave me some crazy excuse of the payment not going through and tried to make me pay a higher price because "" I was late ''. I checked with my bank and all of my money had been there the whole time. I would really like you guys to pull the recordings from last year. I believe they were looking for a way so that I could n't pay the {$550.00} each month but more instead. Their sneaky antics seem fraudulent to me and I 'm not happy to be dealing with this predatory lending experience. 

Also few years ago XXXX XXXX has called my co signers repeatedly even after issues were resolved."
340,The amount of the total amount owed had increased greatly than the amount of what I borrowed. The interest added on to the loans are outrageous.
7322,"I am cosigner for my mother 's Navient private school loans. My mother has been trying to work with Navient to pay her loans in a way she can afford, but they only want to work with me at this point because they know I have a decent income and they say I am "" equally responsible ''. I have been talking with Navient for about 10 months now and have not been able to work out our issues. I am hoping you will be able to help me. 

My major issue is that Navient has my name on XXXX separate private loans that they claim I cosigned for, yet XXXX of the promissory notes does not have my signature on it ( loan is for {$7000.00}, but final charge was {$7200.00} as seen in the paperwork ). The other XXXX loans DO have my signature and I understand that I am responsible for them, but I will not agree to pay on the {$7000.00} loan until they provide me copies of documents that I actually signed. Navient assures me that they have a signed document on file, however they have sent us XXXX copies of the "" master promissory notes '' ( XXXX to myself and XXXX to my mother ) and there is no signature on that document in each packet. I keep calling back and requesting to speak to the department that sends out the documents, but am told that department does answer phones or speak to customers. Seems strange!! 

I am willing to work out a settlement with Navient and they have agreed to a 65 % settlement of the XXXX loans combined, but I do not want to agree to that until I am positive that I truly signed the promissory note for the {$7000.00}. I am really looking to get my name released from the {$7000.00} loan that I never actually agreed to and will make a settlement on the remaining debt. I have only attached the unsigned promissory note, but can certainly provide you with all XXXX of the promissory notes they have sent me if you should need them. 

I do not seem to be getting anywhere with Navient at this point and am requesting your assistance in this matter. I am a responsible person, am well educate, have paid back all of my own school loans in entirety and I am willing to pay back a reasonable settlement on behalf of my mother. Thank you very much."
6093,"TO NAVIENT CC. CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION BUREAU : ACCORDING TO MY ATTORNEY, I AM ASKING NAVIENT NOT TO PUT THIS FRAUDLUENT NARATIVE IN THE CREDIT REPORTS. 

XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX. 
NO. XXXX XXXX, CA XXXX SEE ATTACHED CREDIT REPORT FOR LOAN NUMBER If you wish to have this narrative removed from your credit report, please write to us at XXXX. XXXX XXXX, XXXX, PA XXXX. Please include your name, address, account/loan numbers, and indicate that you wish to have the dispute narrative removed from your credit report. 



Response We reviewed the concerns you addressed to the CFPB and attempted to reach you on XXXX XXXX and XXXX XXXX, XXXX to discuss your account in more detail. Unfortunately, our attempts were unsuccessful and we have n't received a response to our outreach. 

While we were n't able to talk with you directly, we can share that our review of your account determined that your Private XXXX Loans ending with XXXX and XXXX are currently enrolled in our Term and Rate Modification Program ( TRMP ). The monthly payment amount on this program is {$480.00}. You have prescheduled monthly payments from XXXX XXXX, XXXX to XXXX XXXX, XXXX in the amount of {$480.00}. The interest rate of the loans was reduced to 2.00 percent for 12 months and the term of these loans has been extended to 180 months. Our records confirm that this is your third year of enrollment in this reduced payment program. 

Your first year of enrollment in TRMP, your interest rates were reduced to 1.00 percent and your payments were {$180.00} for the loan ending XXXX and {$250.00} for the loan ending XXXX, for a total of {$440.00}. Your second year of enrollment, your interest rates continued to be reduced to 1.00 percent and your payments were {$180.00} for the loan ending XXXX and {$240.00} for the loan ending XXXX, for a total of {$430.00}. 

You mentioned in your inquiry that approximately {$110.00} in extra payments have been taken from your bank account without your authorization. Our records confirm that all of the payments were authorized by you when you enrolled in the reduced repayment program. You are required to set up prescheduled payments and to agree to the terms and conditions of the program, prior to enrollment. 

Our records further confirm that when you initially enrolled in the program on XXXX XXXX, XXXX, your account was severely past due. The terms and conditions of the program were read to you and the terms clearly state that if your loans are past due and your delinquency has been reported to the consumer reporting agencies, the negative information will remain and any further delinquency will continue to be reported until the third qualifying payment is received and posted. 

We have confirmed that the credit reporting is accurate. The Fair Credit Reporting Act requires lenders who report information to the consumer reporting agencies to do so with accuracy. Navient can not remove accurate information previously reported. 

We have updated your credit report to reflect your disputed loans as follows : Completed investigation of FCRA dispute - consumer disagrees. 

This narrative will be reflected on your credit report for each loan you included in your dispute and will be included with our next update to the Consumer Reporting Agencies. 

If you wish to have this narrative removed from your credit report, please write to us at XXXX. XXXX XXXX, XXXX, PA XXXX. Please include your name, address, account/loan numbers, and indicate that you wish to have the dispute narrative removed from your credit report."
1364,Navient. When I was experiencing financial difficulties they told me I have no opinions. For years I paid what I could covering interest only. They falsified information I could have used to pay off my loan earlier.
6570,"I have XXXX Sallie Mae loans. I just finished school in XXXX and now they are constantly wanting money. They told me they do not have the same plans as Federal Student Loans. I do not have a job, yet. Usually, they wait 6 months after school. Sallie Mae did not even wait a month. Then, they made me pay late payments when I do not have a job. They told me they had no income driven plans. So, now I have to do forbearance with a rate of interest 10.25 % which is ridiculous. I have XXXX Sallie Mae loans when I looked at the total interest, I nearly passed out. On XXXX loans, they want to charge me XXXX dollars. The total I took out together was XXXX dollars ... XXXX is interest is highway robbery."
2865,"We have tried repeatedly to get Navient to transfer our stafford student loans to XXXX because both my husband and I work for XXXX and would qualify for public service loan forgiveness, but each time we apply they deny us saying we did n't file the right paperwork or ignore us altogether. We have applied 3 times and twice they did n't even respond."
6355,"My name is XXXX XXXX and I am the cosigner on XXXX loans for my wife, XXXX XXXX XXXX maiden name XXXX XXXX. On our first loan in the past we attached XXXX notes to XXXX consecutive bills that were sent into Sallie Mae for the purpose of instructions on how to apply payment to our loan. We had paid over the minimum amount and the excess had not been applied to principle. The purpose of the notes was to instruct Sallie Mae to apply the extra to principle so that the loan could be paid down quicker. This was attempted because I had called into Sallie Mae to find out how to apply excess to principle and was instructed to attach a note. XXXX notes seemed to be ignored and after calling in and being told just to attach another note we gave up. Now that my wife is going back to school we applied for another loan in late XXXX. My wife made her normal payment over the minimum for XXXX and we did not receive a bill for XXXX. Because she had paid over the minimum Sallie Mae had taken the excess and applied it for the next payment. This is not how we wanted the payment to be applied. I called into Sallie Mae to find out the current status of the loan on XXXX XXXX, 2015 at XXXX. After talking with someone on the phone I was told that excess funds are kept in an account so that if a payment is missed or under the minimum this account will make up the difference. I also asked why payments are n't applied to principle and the above was explained to me and I asked if they did this so that loans are more likely to be held to the full duration, the response I received was "" yes ''. From my understanding it is illegal for Sallie Mae to apply a payment contradictory to the way indicated in the note attached to the payment. I would like to know why our instruction have been ignored and why payments are not applied to the principle. Unfortunately I do not know the dates for which the noted were sent in or calls were first made for this problem."
5393,"I have repeatedly asked Navient to provide me with printed payment history, as the company has not permitted me to make lump sum payments to principal. I have yet to see my statements. Any large payments I have made have been placed as future dated payments allowing the company to collect additional interest, rather than applying the payments to principal. 

All of the below mentioned have impacted me : Trouble with how payments are handled Do n't agree with fees charged Received bad information about my loan Need information about my balance/terms Keep getting calls about my loan Having problems with customer service I went to two schools and borrowed on both : XXXX and XXXX University"
4253,"I was accepted into the PSLF program, had my loans transfered to FedLoan Servicing, and was eventually told that the last 10 years of payments I made while working for a qualified organization would n't count. I was told my repayment plan ( Extended ) was n't one of the ones on the list. That makes no sense! The program was described as being income contingent when I signed up for it but according to PSLF ( as administered by FedLoan ) the repayment plan did n't count. Someone needs to explain to me how the Extended plan is n't income contingent. The purpose of the plan is to ease the strain on borrowers ' finances ( versus Standard repayment ). At no time in the last 10 years of my repayment did anyone tell me not to proceed with my application or promote PSLF options that would have benefited me. I want my loans forgiven. I did my part and made 10 years of payments while working for a qualifying organization while under a repayment plan that was based on my income at the time of payment enrollment."
677,I was told that income repayment program was the best for me because it was goes based on my income alone. What I was n't told is that there is a cap and when ur married it includes my wife income now as a result I 'm paying much higher and there nothing I can do about it because if I get out then I pay much higher. On top of that I requested for them to change my auto pay account and they told me that I have to stop auto pay the regular rate with the higher interest then change the account. Even though they can change it via paper request they ca n't via phone even though they already have the account on file. When I requested to speak a  manager I was refused but then they just put me on hold for 15 mins to chan ge a simple thing.
4496,"I am a cosigner on my daughter 's student loans. As outlined in the pending suites we have been victimized by Navient 's unfair, deceptive and predatory business practices. On numerous occasions Navient has not been helpful in trying to resolve issues and, as noted in the various government complaints, tried to steered us into more costly forbearance. There have also been instances where monies have been misapplied to loans. I have been trying to work out a plan of action to get current with Navient but have encountered resistance at each turn. I also feel i have been outright lied to concerning information on payment postings."
1445,"Nelnet is my federal student loan servicer. When I learned about the Public Service Loan Forgiveness ( PSLF ) program, I called my loan servicer to find out how to become qualified. At that time I was told there was no paper work to fill out until I had already worked ten years in a qualifying position. I asked if my position ( state government ) would qualify- they said yes. I called 2-3 times over the next six years to ask if there was paperwork or any other action I needed to take in order to have my loans forgiven under that plan. Each time I was ensured by a customer service representative that there was no action I needed to take. My most recent call to Nelnet was XXXX/XXXX/17 to re-certify my income-based payment, and during that call I made my regular inquiry about the PSLF program and my qualifications. I was told at that time that my loans should have been consolidated under the XXXX XXXX XXXX loan consolidation program before I began making those qualifying 120 consecutive payments. I spoke to a supervisor who gave me the same information. When I asked why I was given false information for the six previous years the supervisor said, "" I do n't know why someone would tell you that. '' When I asked to make a complaint she told me that the complaint would only be good for employee training purposes- not to resolve my issue. 

I did not accept job offers from private companies because I wanted to remain in a qualifying position for the PSLF program. This Nelnet "" blunder '' has caused me to make approximately {$14000.00} in payments that could have been used for PSLF ; and narrow my career path by choosing to remain in state government service."
6718,"In XXXX I attended an online College by the name of XXXX College based in Colorodo ( I live in California ). I was granted student loans through Navient to attended a XXXX course which was solicited to me through a phone call. After hearing what was proposed it all sounded very promising. After receiving confirmation for the student load I signed up for my XXXX semester. I only attended XXXX term of the fist semester and completed XXXX classes, XXXX and a class that helped me understand XXXX. The only materials that I received from the school was a book and XXXX XXXX. Due to hardships I successfully withdrew from the XXXX semester. After leaving XXXX college online, they continued to pull money from my student loan service that was credited to me when I began attending, resulting in even greater debt. 
I felt that I have been wrongly charged with this loan that has not only hurt my credit score but had created a great deal of stress because I am unable to repair my score due to a default. 
Navient is now the student loan provider in which did NOT offer any solutions of lower repayment plans, but rather offered only forbearance to further delay a repayment option. After many forbearance, Navient would not grant any more and because I was unable to make the minimum payment my loan defaulted resulting in a crushing blow to my credit score. After years of trying to resolve this situation the only thing I was able to do was make a 9 month payment plan of {$8.00} to get my loan out of default. Since then, Navient has still offered no solutions of a lower repayment plan but only more forbearance. I have also learned that since my attendance at XXXX XXXX they have been in a lawsuit and has forgiving {$15.00} XXXX in student loans all the way back to XXXX. I have attempted to contact XXXX College about this but they have gone out of business so I am once again left to a dead end."
9816,"I am receiving multiple phone calls daily. Similarly, friends of mine are getting between XXXX and XXXX calls some days asking for my contact information. I do not recall ever giving anyone this friend 's contact information, not even as a reference."
9218,"West Asset Management sent me a repayment plan request, which I completed and returned to the listed address. I agreed to make monthly payments of {$180.00}. WAM claims they did n't receive the documentation. I know for certain the documents were mailed to them. In the meantime, they have called repeatedly threatening me, saying they will see that my credit is destroyed and I will never have anything. They call at all hours of the day and night and they 've called my employer. Additionally, they 've capitalized the grants I received in the total debt amount. I 've discovered a disbursement error by the University XXXX XXXX Maine that has not yet been rectified. I want to pay my student loans in an amount that is manageable."
598,"I am submitting a complaint against Navient who gave my son student loans without my approval. Now it turns out that they put me as a co-signer of which I never had agreed to nor have signed for. I requested a copy of the original loan contracts and found that they have typed in my name even thought the contract clearly states that one should read the contract before signing it. I see no where that I have signed it and I will never agreed to it. I am requesting help on getting these loans off my credit report. 

Thank you."
6534,"A large portion of my school-associated fees were covered by scholarship, but I had to borrow a portion each year to cover the differences. After a great deal of effort and research, I decided to go with Sallie Mae because rates were very competitive. I regret that decision every day! While I was in school, I worked to make monthly payments in order to lower the overall principle once I graduated and the loans entered repayment. I was granted a six-month grace period before monthly charges were assessed post-graduation ; however, at no point was I notified ( electronically or via XXXX mail ) ANY information about my loan. I attempted to call Sallie Mae on countless occasions and even submitted a handful of concerns into those question boxes on its website -- all to no avail. No one ever got back with me. FINALLY, I start getting upwards of XXXX12 phone calls a day starting in XXXX 2016 saying I am over {$1200.00} past due. How can this be? I - again - call Sallie Mae customer service and end up none the wiser because no one has the information I need. I soon threaten a lawsuit and am quickly directed to a manager 's line ( although since, I have talked to at least XXXX different "" managers '' ). She instructed me that my monthly payments were in fact approximately {$1200.00}, and I was two months past due. I am a teacher, and this is more than I make in a given month! I was never given the option to choose a repayment plan or even notified on what my monthly bill would be! I had NO IDEA until I started receiving collections calls - even after numerous attempts to find out on my end. The beginning of the 2nd week in XXXX ( I have all of the specific dates, names and employee identification numbers, and conversation details logged onto a document on my laptop ), I started the process to apply for a rate-reduction program. This includes filling out a financial report and answering a bunch of questions for both the borrower and the co-signer. I had XXXX loans with Sallie Mae, and both have a different co-signer. It took approximately 2 and 1/2 weeks to get this information gathered because you can never speak to the same customer representative twice, even if you request them. Also, my co-signer started tracking her correspondence with Sallie Mae, so we could compare notes. On several occasions, we discovered we had talked to the same person, but that representative adamantly denied it! This game went on for several weeks ; first it was that I had n't answered ALL necessary questions. Then, once I and my information were confirmed, it was that my co-signer had n't answered the necessary questions. At XXXX point, I was in the same room as my co-signer, and the person I was talking to was blatantly lying to me! He said she had not called to update her financial questionnaire, but I was just sitting right next to her as she did so not even an hour before. I proposed that perhaps it had n't been updated in the system yet, since it had only happened, and he said it would 've been done automatically and told me I was lying! This is when I stopped working with ANYONE besides a manager. At this point, I was connected to a very sweet girl who got me enrolled in the program within an hour - no problems. Hmm. How was it that simple when it had been over 2 weeks since I started the process and had been told numerous times I did n't qualify or could n't qualify without submitting the proper info first? I was disconnected before it finalized, and I never received a call back. This was on a Friday, so I called Monday to check the status. The girl I talked to on Friday ( I have her name and ID # ) apparently does n't exist, and I had to start the process all over! Finally XXXX, I 'm enrolled. I have now received info it was never "" approved '' and have to start all over AGAIN! Even though lowered monthly payments have been collected BUT NOT APPLIED TO ANY LOANS! Is this illegal?!"
301,"NELNET is reporting student loan late payments on my credit report that is not accurate. Everytime I dispute with the credit bureaus, it comes back verified. When I dispute diresctly with NELNET, I never get a response. Just proves that no real investigation was ever done. This is a violation of the FCRA. 

Account Number : XXXX Negative Information Being Reported : 120 days past due XX/XX/2014, XX/XX/2014, 150 days XX/XX/2014, 180 days XX/XX/2014, XX/XX/2014, XX/XX/2014, XX/XX/2014, XX/XX/2014, XX/XX/2014 Account Number : XXXX Negative Information Being Reported : 120 days past due XX/XX/2014, XX/XX/2014, 150 days XX/XX/2014, 180 days XX/XX/2014, XX/XX/2014, XX/XX/2014, XX/XX/2014, XX/XX/2014, XX/XX/2014 Account Number : XXXX Negative Information Being Reported : 120 days past due XX/XX/2014, XX/XX/2014, 150 days XX/XX/2014, 180 days XX/XX/2014, XX/XX/2014, XX/XX/2014, XX/XX/2014, XX/XX/2014, XX/XX/2014 Account Number : XXXX Negative Information Being Reported : 120 days past due XXXX, XXXX, 150 days XX/XX/XXXX, 180 days XX/XX/2014, XX/XX/2014, XX/XX/2014, XX/XX/2014, XX/XX/2014, XX/XX/2014 Account Number : XXXX Negative Information Being Reported : 120 days past due XX/XX/2014, XX/XX/2014, 150 days XX/XX/2014, 180 days XX/XX/2014, XX/XX/2014, XX/XX/2014, XX/XX/2014, XX/XX/2014, XX/XX/2014 Account Number : XXXX Negative Information Being Reported : 120 days past due XX/XX/2014, XX/XX/2014, 150 days XX/XX/2014, 180 days XX/XX/2014, XX/XX/2014, XX/XX/2014, XX/XX/2014, XX/XX/2014, XX/XX/2014"
5816,I was directed to put the loans into a forbearance amount of time until I could afford my loans. I then put the loans into a interest only payment for a year until they put me back right into the normal repayment. Please note the normal repayment was over XXXX $ a month.
2146,"In XX/XX/XXXX, I went to XXXX to submit my annual Income Based Repayment ( IBR ) renewal form. Per the instructions, I mailed the form to American Education Services ( AES ) in XX/XX/2017. I called them several times to check for status, but they claimed they had not received anything, yet. I escalated and discovered that the application was sent FedLoan Servicing ( It was sent to whatever address was posted at StudentLoan.gov under my account ). Apparently, FedLoan Servicing is a sister company to AES or a company they recently merged with. According to AES, when FedLoan Servicing sent my application to AES to be properly processed, FedLoan Servicing only sent a partial application. By that time, it was XX/XX/XXXX, so I faxed my application to AES for quicker review. Yes, I said "" fax. '' They apparently do not have the technology to accept a PDF via eMail or upload ... ... ( Side Note : AES had no record of my conversations in XX/XX/XXXX ; the rep apparently deleted the record of my contact. ) Over the next several weeks, I called several times for status. AES told me each time that they had the application, and it was being reviewed. In XX/XX/XXXX, my payment went up from {$560.00} per month to {$1500.00} per month because they claimed they had not received my IBR renewal in a timely manner. Of course, I had only paid {$560.00}, and now they claim I 'm delinquent. I called again. The agent suggested I send it again. So, I sent the application a fourth time. This agent claimed I had only sent my application in the week prior. She argued with me adamantly that that was the case. I finally convinced her to check the application, and she quietly said, "" Why is this dated in XX/XX/XXXX? '' .... I am at the end of my rope with this company. I honestly believe that they are purposely delaying IBR renewals on people with no remaining forbearance so that they can charge extra fees and collect higher payments. This is predatory lending at its worst! And, since it is a student loan, I have no recourse as an American consumer. They now have claim to destroy my great credit and garnish my wages. If anyone else has experienced this, please share! This level of incompetence is too blatant to be accidental."
6101,"I received a call on Wednesday, XXXX XXXX, 2016 approximately around XXXX. to XXXX. in regards to my XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX, which has defaulted and has gone to this collection agency : TransWorld Systems, Incorporation, telephone number : XXXX. 
I am so angry the way this gentleman talked to me on the phone. He made me feel like I was "" NOTHING. '' I am so upset right now. When this collection agency first called several weeks ago, I started out speaking with XXXX XXXX. XXXX XXXX called last week and she stated she noted my account of what I was currently doing to resolve this debt. I do not use offensive language, but this gentleman that called me caused me to use offensive language. You do not call somebody 's house and speak to them in a way that makes them feel like they are incompetent, ignorant, and beneath you. They are going to keep hassling me about this student loan XXXX and they, XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX is not going to get one dime because I DO NOT have a co-signer."
2091,I have called repeatly through out the years asking for loan reduction I was told to fill out the paper work They always call back and say the type of loan I can not do this. The interest racks up. I pay for my daughter who is s XXXX however I can not get a discount because I am not the XXXX. However that is not stated when you hear about forgiveness XXXX I never get them to reduce my psyment so I actually can make a payment. If I pay what I can it does not even cover the interest payment. I honestly wanted to make a payment I can afford with this interest payment a lot lower
1116,"I have a federal loan through Navient. I am under an IBR repayment plan where I am currently paying {$410.00} per month. On XX/XX/XXXX and XX/XX/XXXX, my bank received a ACH withdrawal request for {$2100.00}. Navient is closed for the evening, but the only thing that I can think of is that it is time to renew my IBR, and I have not received any notice from Navient that my IBR renewal was due and I updated my contact information XX/XX/XXXX. They did not call me when they tried to withdraw {$2100.00} from my account and it did not go through. Instead they kept trying to make a withdrawal, causing me to incur additional fees."
8945,"My lender has instituted a monthly "" convenience fee '' every time I try to pay my loans. The only option to not have to pay said "" convenience fee '' is if I enroll in their autodraft program, but when I attempt to do so, their website says my loans are ineligible. I have been paying my loans in a timely manner for 8 years and do not understand why I am now being penalized for attempting to continue to do so."
1136,"Every time I have called Navient to come up a proper repayment plan, I have always received high payment options.Moreover, right now I have been given a low payment plan, but it appears that the monthly payments are not being applied to the existing open balances."
8093,At the age of just XXXX I was already being pressured into a student loan. I was not considered an XXXX although I did not have contact with family and was supporting myself financially. I agreed to a student loan with XXXX / Navient. After a few academic semesters I had to choose work over school as I was my sole income. I explained this situation to XXXX many times. I was often called and harassed to make payments of {$220.00} a month on a total balance of {$3500.00}. This at the time was not physically possible for me to do. I was never offered an option for income-based loan repayments. Instead I was offered forbearance twice for a total of XXXX year. After this I was still unable to make those high payments. My loan went into default and after years of begging to make $ XXXX monthly payments rather than no payments I was denied. I could n't even go back to school to possibly defer payments since I was in default. This in turn ruined my credit at a very early age which caused me to accept unethically high APR on auto loan and to be denied credit for many instances. It was only XXXX years ago that I entered the XXXX XXXX program which allowed me to get my loan out of default. Once again they wanted payments in the amount that I could not afford. I was forced to extend my loan out by many years just to afford payments. Not to mention the incredibly high fees for having transferred loan between lenders and collections. This small student loan will end up costing me more than double the amount I originally borrowed. It has taken me years to semi-repair the damage.
3723,"RE : Great Lakes XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX Collection Support I feel like this Company, in question, has improperly mismanage funds through my employer, XXXX, since XXXX, XXXX and also taken my XXXX Federal Refund of and XXXX State Refund of without my knowledge. In addition, they have combined some of my loans without my consent. 
To my knowledge, my student loans are still being service with XXXX XXXX XXXX, XXXX XXXX. XXXX XXXX, XXXX, TN XXXX and maybe under deferment. According to written statements from XXXX XXXX XXXX, my account is in good standing. Current balance is {$0.00}, Past due balance is {$0.00}, Regular monthly payment {$0.00}, Interest rate is 2.33 %. I recently received these reports from Great Lakes and found out that The Great Lakes XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX Collection Support, is charging an interest rate of 18 %. I contacted Great Lakes XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX on Tuesday, XXXX XXXX, XXXX and spoke with XXXX. When I started to ask questions about the interest rate and money taken from XXXX 's, my employer, and combining my loans without my consent, XXXX became furious and hung- up the phone. I proceeded to call back again and someone answered and the phone was hung-up a second time. I then called back a third time and spoke to XXXX. XXXX proceeded to tell me he could place me on a "" Rehabilitation Program '' to stop the wage garnishments. He further explains to start the program, I would need to pay a fee of {$890.00} and my payments a month would be around {$5.00}. I immediately thought to myself, this does not make sense. Because they are already taking money from my pay check on a weekly or monthly basis and they have already taken my Federal & State Refund without my knowledge or consent, so why would I need to pay this outrageous fee of {$890.00}. What is wrong with this picture? 
My question to you is ; How did Great Lakes XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX acquire my loan from XXXX XXXX without my knowledge? How are they able to legally take money from my pay check and Federal & State Refund? Should I have received a letter from XXXX XXXX XXXX? In addition, Great Lakes have combined some of my loans without my consent or knowledge and why are they charging outrageous fees? Why I am still getting updated information from XXXX XXXX regarding my loan? Has Great Lakes broken laws under the "" Fair Debt Collection Act? I need further investigation into Great Lakes XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX - Collection Support- regarding their Unfair Practices. 
I am raising my XXXX years old daughter and because Great Lakes Collection Support has taken money from my pay check since XXXX, XXXX, and to top it off also took the Federal & State tax refund, this has caused a strain in my income and emotional distress. 
I would like for you to further investigate these findings because I have written proof from XXXX XXXX that they still are servicing my loan and it is in "" Good Standing '' In Summary ; Due to questionable, improper & unfair practices, may or may not be complying with the "" Fair Debt Collection Act '' from Great Lakes XXXX XXXX XXXX on acquiring the student loan from XXXX XXXX, charging higher interest rates, and combining some loans without my knowledge or consent. We ask for a full investigation into Great Lakes XXXX XXXX XXXX Practices."
9623,"I co-signed a loan with my grandson for a college loan through XXXX XXXX. The original amount was XXXX. No payment was made on the loan until XXXX XXXX. XXXX when a cashier 's check for XXXX was sent to XXXX XXXX as payment in full. It was signed for in their mailroom and was deposited on XXXX XXXX. The deposit stamp on the back said "" deposit to XXXX XXXX XXXX, XXXX XXXX, Account # XXXX. A copy of that check was sent to XXXX XXXX by XXXX on XXXX XXXX, XXXX and signed for by XXXX XXXX at XXXX XXXX Mail room. When I talked to XXXX XXXX about this their answer was "" that 's not our account number ''. It 's stamped XXXX XXXX XXXX so??????????????????"
5620,Navient has now stopped taking credit card payments as of XX/XX/2017. They only except payment through a bank account and debit cards. This makes it more difficult to make a payment if I need to use my credit card one month.
9108,"I have been trying to track down my student loan debt with navient once it moved from under XXXX XXXX. Due to awful communication and customer service from Navient, the debt then was moved to collections under General Revenue Corporation. They had an old address that I have not lived at for over 3 1/2 years and were sending letters to that old address which were of course not forwarded anymore. So, they started calling everyone and anyone they felt was associated with me. They had my phone number and email correct just the wrong mailing address. I find it harassing and professionally embarrassing that they were calling people who I do n't even know that they had marked as "" possible associate '' on their call list. They finally called collegue over at the XXXX, at the XXXX, how mortifying! He emailed me today about it and I resolved the issue with General Revenue Corporation. I am going through my security clearance renewal and have an upstanding reputation in my XXXX community and this is just, very very unnerving. I feel that General Revenue Corporation overstepped all boundries in acceptable methods of contact, calling people I do n't even know and collegues I rarely see. My current address is easy to find online and via XXXX and public records. I went through this very long list of people that GRC had on my file as "" possible contacts '' and did n't even know some of them! Creditors should not me randomly calling people who may not even know you or who may only be professional colleagues to try and contact you regarding debt. It is inappropriate and harassing behavior that can also lead to negative professional ramifications. 
I 'm happy to provide a dozen contacts as long as creditors like General Revenue Corporation do n't make up a random list on their own using whatever random methods and call professional colleagues at the XXXX. Especially when they can find my current address easily as a matter of public record."
7329,"I have enclosed the documentation of my claim that erroneous items are being listed on my credit report due to these private student loans. Attached are all the supporting documents. I simply want the items, including any hard credit inquires from potential creditors that were denied, ALL removed and deleted from my credit report as they are not factual. This issue has directly impacted my ability to obtain personal lines of credit since XXXX of 2014. 

Enclosed is the official response from XXXX Student Loans including the original promissory note stating only XXXX ( XXXX ) loans from their offices were ever issued with direct contact information. These private student loans were then bounced around between National Collegiate Trust ( NCT ), American Education Services ( AES ), and XXXX XXXX. All of these items are listed on my credit report as multiple separate loans when they are NOT separate loans but the same XXXX ( XXXX ) original loans transferred from the lender to vendor, to collection agency. 
Executive Office XXXX Student Loans XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX, XXXX XXXX ATTN : XXXX XXXX Phone : XXXX extention XXXX Both of the private student loans were originally from XXXX. These loans now appear as multiple negative items listed as XXXX XXXX Loans, National Collegiate Trust, American Education Services, or XXXX XXXX. NONE of these items should not even appear on my credit report as negative items. Per the court ruling this debt was dismissed without prejudice and can not be collected on, nor should it even appear on my credit report as it is not a debt. 
Magisterial District Court : XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX, XXXX XXXX Phone : XXXX Docket Number : XXXX XXXX Department of Court Records, Civil/Family XXXX-County Building XXXX XXXX XXXX, XXXX XXXX, XXXX XXXX Phone : XXXX Case Number : XXXX"
2222,"I have XXXX loan servicers. ACS and XXXX XXXX. I sent them both the same application packet with my pay stubs so they could get a picture of my situation. XXXX XXXX used this information correctly and thus provided me with the correct monthly payment amounts, which I am paying. ( XXXX $ /month ). 

ACS came back with a payment that does not, in any way, reflect my income situation at the time the Income based Repayment plan application was submitted. ( $ XXXX dollars ) This is the second year in a row that I am having this problem with them. Last year it was the same starting point as that of what I am dealing with now and last year, after going through hoops, it ended up being XXXX $ per month. ( Finally, the same as what XXXX XXXX calculated my payment to be for XXXX initially. ). I 'm making a little more money now as reflected in the XXXX payment that I make to XXXX XXXX. But, it 's the same story with ACS for some reason. Why do I never have this problem with XXXX XXXX??? They need to use the same income information that XXXX XXXX used. That is federally mandated! It is the SAME federal repayment program used by XXXX companies and the same exact information was sent to XXXX of them. The only difference was I replaced each company 's name on the fax. 

I should not have to go through this two years in a row. This signaled to me that something is up at ACS and they need to be aired out."
3975,"Navient purchased my student loans from XXXX on XX/XX/2016 ( according to them via phone today at XXXX ). I received correspondence from Navient in XXXX regarding this change & called them to remit my payment. Not only did I make my XXXX payment on time ( prior to XX/XX/XXXX ) but I also paid XXXX during this same initial phone call. Today, I receive a letter from Navient advising that my account is past due since I did n't make my XXXX payment. I immediately call in and the representative tells me I never paid XXXX. I candidly went through the timeline with her ( XXXX Agent # XXXX ) and had her confirm that it is impossible for Navient to imply they notified me in XXXX to send my XX/XX/XXXX payment to them since they actually acquired my loan on XX/XX/XXXX. She verified that I had in fact called in XXXX and made 2 payments immediately. I explained that I did this proactively since the initial rep explained that I would need to set up an online account with Navient for future payments. Since I had never used their system, I went ahead and made the XXXX payment to avoid any issues. I am most upset at the deceptive practice of reporting my account late to the credit bureaus when in fact I contacted Navient and remitted payment not only for XXXX but also XXXX. I think it is also important to note that for the entire time XXXX held my account, I was only late once when I was in between jobs. Other than that, I always paid in advance of my due date. I do n't know the laws regarding account acquisition but I would have to imagine there is some sort of grace period put in place to allow for the transition of accounts. This absolutely ridiculous to me that my account is being reflected as negative."
4306,"I applied for the income driven program during the process of a year with not having any payment due, my interest rates accrued at a ridiculously high rate. After calling several time inquiring about the rates they said that it was nothing that they could do. They are very rude and not willing to help. I asked them about the option to work on payin my bill down and they basically offer m rte ft paying {$150.00} for month and XXXX for the remainder months."
8956,"I have a student loan from XXXX XXXX XXXX University being collected by ECSI. I have paid on the loan since 2008. I went through unemployment and then entered school full time. I am in school at XXXX XXXX University for a XXXX in XXXX XXXX. 
ECSI has received all of the deferment paperwork for in school status. They contact me every other month at least to tell me I am due for payments. Then they send me emails that I am in deferment. The website states I am in deferment but it also shows I have payments due. 
I am trying to buy a house and I looked at my credit tracker. ECSI sent me an email in late XXXX that I am in deferment from XXXX to XXXX Then they reported me 30 days late to the credit bureau on my account on XXXX XXXX."
1171,"I attempted to file this complaint with my student loan servicer ( see below ). I received an emailed response "" an application is being mailed to you. '' I completed an IDR application online. I emailed my tax return to FLS the next day. I spoke to XXXX at FLS who said this was received. On the IDR application the Department of Education listed FLS as my loan servicer, one name one address. 

I am requesting to file a formal complaint. First, I spoke to your agency and I was never advised about the income based repayment plans when I was having trouble paying my loans. I received no assistance from AES or FLS other than forbearance and then being told my forbearance time is up. Second, your agency is refusing to process my XXXX application. I contacted both FLS and AES and notified them my application was submitted online and my tax documentation was emailed to FLS and I received confirmation on the phone and via email, the tax documentation was received. 

I understand you use two separate names, but you are the same agency. Your AES representative lied and said you were a completely separate company and not in the same building or associated, which is untrue. I am requesting, again, that you ( FLS and AES ) process my XXXX application accordingly as you have the completed application and my income documentation. 

There is a serious problem when a student loan servicer deliberately makes this process hard for borrowers because of your lack of communication and unwillingness to take a few extra minutes to assist your customers. Instead your 'escalated ' representatives attempt to make me duplicate efforts by faxing income documentation that you already have. And I emailed the tax return initially after trying to fax all day, to a constant busy signal. Your ever so helpful representative then suggested 'just keep trying, ' until I asked questions about alternatives and was given an incorrect email address. I called back again to get the correct email address."
8396,"Dear Representative, I 'm writing to dispute the American Education Systems ' ( AES ) entries on my credit report on account XXXX. This account was opened to finance my college education. I received the loan XX/XX/XXXX. After receiving the loan and making all installment payments in full and on-time for the entire history of loan repayment ( over three years XX/XX/XXXX ), my loan suddenly went into default because the loan servicer claimed that I had filed for bankruptcy. I found out later that my mother and co-signer on this loan had filed for bankruptcy without my knowledge and AES had automatically defaulted my loan without providing me with notification or an option to payoff. 

My co-signer 's filing had no bearing on my ability to pay my loan. I could have paid off the loan in full had this been an option. Since my co-signer filed for Chapter XXXX bankruptcy, I should have been given loan payoff as option. Instead, it took months of my own effort to contact AES customer service and National Collegiate Trust ( original lender ) seeking information about what happened with my loan and how I could continue to pay it. 

I eventually found out they sold it to XXXX, which is where I am now sending the monthly installments. To date, I am current on all payments. I am still being reported as having defaulted on my loan payments since XX/XX/XXXX, even though I am continuing to send monthly installments to the new loan servicer. 

AES reports their automatic default action as a "" Charge Off '' on my account and this negative information is now affecting my ability to obtain good interest rates on a mortgage. AES customer service has misinformed me that the credit reporting agencies ( XXXX, XXXX, XXXX ) are the only ones who can remove this information. After filing a dispute with these agencies, I am informed by these credit agencies that the deletion of the negative information needs to come from AES. AES has also told me that they can not remove the negative information due to the Fair Credit Reporting Act ( FCRA ) - even though this act is intended to protect consumers from unfair credit reporting, not punish responsible borrowers such as myself. 

I have a proven track record of on-time, paid-in-full monthly installment payments in the years preceding and following the recorded default caused by my mother 's bankruptcy. I have records of all of my payment history available if needed. AES has violated the notification requirements of the FCRA and repeatedly provided me with false or misleading information about my account and their ability to resolve it. AES has turned a good loan bad with their irresponsible charge off of this account and I am being penalized for their actions despite proving myself to be a responsible borrower. 

I request CFPB require AES to immediately remove the negative information from my credit report for account associated with XXXX. 

Thank you."
7628,"After reading the news about XXXX and now Navient I realize my situation matches several of those stories. Two week prior to graduating from XXXX in 2008 I was pulled out of class and taken to see a woman I had never seen at the school before ( maybe XXXX staff member in that entire building I knew them all at this point ). 

She tells me there has been an issue with my financial aid and that for the last year I have had no finances to pay for that years tuition, and I am now on the hook for nearly {$20000.00} in fees. They claimed the prior finance director never sent off my aid request for that year and showed the dated document from her filling cabinet. In my panicked state I was pushed into signing a high interest private loan. That did not have some of the safety nets traditional student loans have. 

The following week I was asked to stay at XXXX to complete a XXXX degree but in a different field that my XXXX degree. When asked why there 's not a XXXX degree for my graduating field I was told that my class would be the last one to graduate from XXXX with my degree because employment rates for graduates was less than 30 % and that they 'd no longer be offering those courses. I found this very surprising because 2yrs prior their recruitment agent boasted 80 % + job placement rate for graduates. 

A year or two later when having trouble paying for my loans and sought options to reduce my payments I was told by XXXX XXXX to enter forbearance and that it was my only real option. 9 years later an {$700.00} a month loan payments my balance is greater than the original loan amount."
3261,"Below is the original letter that was sent : XXXX XXXX, XXXX Dear Navient Claims Department, My name is XXXX and I am writing a letter concerning my Account. Enclosed is information concerning Loan XXXX ( XXXX, {$5500.00} ) on my account. After a phone conversation with Navient on XXXX XXXX, XXXX, a research request was sent in to determine fees that I was overcharged during the duration of my loan. On XXXX XXXX, XXXX a response to that request was given and I was asked to prove in school deferment during the period of XXXX. Enclosed is enrollment verification from XXXX institutions proving half-time enrollment during the specified semesters. Please contact me regarding this matter. 
Sincerely,"
8790,"My original payment was set at {$50.00} around XX/XX/XXXX. I called to get my limit raised to {$190.00} since I can afford more to autopay each month. Each month only {$0.00} comes out. I 've called since this first happened in XX/XX/XXXX and Navient said the next payment should be {$190.00}, but that has yet to happen. I 've ended up paying more interest than I would have if I my autopay could actually take the correct about of money out."
9166,"Navient Reference Number XXXX - Called from XXXX claiming to be formerly XXXX XXXX - Re Debtor XXXX XXXX. Navient claims I am a reference. XXXX XXXX also did previously and I asked to be removed. I have no contact with XXXX XXXX and I did not co-sign or provide a reference on any loan. I spoke to XXXX XXXX of Navient of XXXX XXXX, PA. Asked to be removed as a reference. He agreed to do so but refused to provide written confirmation. Written confirmation should be provided since my name remained on the file after XXXX XXXX allegedly removed it. Personally, I do n't even know if XXXX XXXX provided this information or there obtained my contact info in another way which may violate Federal Debt Collection laws."
7846,"My daughter - XXXX XXXX XXXX - took out XXXX {$30000.00} loans. I co-signed a XXXX for XXXX of those loans. The college is XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX and XXXX. The loan servicer is Navient, the former XXXX XXXX. Navient calls at all hours, and on weekends, as phone logs would support. I have responded a number of times. My daughter has attempted payment arrangements, and on the first payment they raided her checking account the night before payday and said she defaulted because the money was not in the account. The money was not in the account because they tapped the account early. My daughter wants to make a payment arrangement that her income can support, and that will cease the abusive tactics from Navient. When she was on the phone with a Navient collection agent, he yelled at her, threatened litigation, and would not accept a date for a payment arrangement. This agency, which conducts abusive, harassing tactics as a business model, calls my daughter at her workplace when she has asked them not to do so. I am the co-signer for XXXX loan, but the terms, fees, rates were never discussed with me by anyone at XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX and XXXX, nor were they explained to my daughter, who was XXXX years old when she enrolled in 2004. 

My email is XXXXXXXXXXXX and my phone is XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX, XXXX XXXX"
7298,"I am having issues with my loan servicer "" Navient '' according to the federal student loan site I should be able to do the following. 
"" Can I pay more than my required monthly payment? 
You can make payments before they are due or pay more than the amount due each month. Paying a little extra each month can reduce the interest you pay and reduce your total cost of your loan over time. If you want to ensure that your loan is paid off faster, tell your loan servicer that the extra you pay is not intended to be put toward future payments. 
However, Navient will not allow me to apply additional moneys paid each month to principle. For example my XXXX statement has a monthly payment of XXXX due XXXX/XXXX/16 which XXXX should be interest the balance XXXX principle. I made a payment on XXXX/XXXX/16 20 days early. My account was credited as follows XXXX interest XXXX principle i have contacted and tried to work with this servicer to be able to pay additional principle. In addition to this issue they recently lowered my payment from XXXX to XXXX this only severs to make the loan longer there by earning more interest."
2123,ACS education company cheates me and put my federal student loan in default under 270 days. They sent me to XXXX their collection agency and I had to make 12 consistent payment to bring it back to active. After I made 12 monthly consistent payment. They sold me back to ACS.
3097,"NAVIANT has been unwilling to make my monthly payments manageable amount, even through hardship letters, and proof of income statements. I have had no flexibility on what day each month my payment is auto drafted."
1407,"Please review my student loan account because it is reporting inaccurate information. This account was open XX/XX/2011 and has not been ( 30, 60, 120 days ) late, but Fed Loan Servicing has increase my balance from {$96000.00} to {$110000.00} ... just within the last few years. Please investigate the accuracy of this account ASAP. Fair Credit Reporting Act 611 ( a ) [ 15 USC 168li ( a ) ], I 'm writing this letter regarding this alleged amount of {$110000.00} with the account ( # XXXX ). I recently received a copy of my credit report and wish to dispute the accuracy of some information contained in the report."
6118,I am a cosigner for my sons private student loans through Wells Fargo. My wife and I refinanced our home to pay off the loans which was {$71000.00}. The loans were to be paid to Wells Fargo directly by the closing attorney with the proceeds from the refinance. This took place on the XXXX of XXXX. I checked on line and and saw that a residual amount was still on the loan of {$2900.00} I called Wells Fargo Customer service and said that because the loan was in forbearance the interest was not included in the payoff. i saw i was getting no where.
6926,"I am writing to express my dissatisfaction with American Education Services. I have been out of college since XX/XX/XXXX and have been making monthly loan payments since my deferment ended in XX/XX/XXXX. Never once have I been late with a payment. Additionally, I have a steady job as a high school teacher and adjunct professor in conjunction with great credit. However, every couple of months the interest on these loans increase. I have called American Education Services several times to discuss this issue, but they claim there is nothing that they can do. If the interest continues to increase every couple of months as it has been for the past year, I 'm afraid I will no longer be able to afford my monthly payments. Also, because the interest is so high, I have barely made a dent in paying off my remaining debt. According to my last statement, I have paid a total of {$7600.00}. However, {$5300.00} went towards the interest. That is just unfair. This is a pattern that I do not see ending, and it must. Otherwise, I will drown completely in debt along with many other college graduates. American Education Services must be stopped from committing such highway robbery. It is with great hope that CFPB will take action against American Education Services in order to allow college grads the opportunity to live debt-free."
2805,In XX/XX/2016 I contacted ACS regarding incorrect credit reporting. I was advised it was corrected. I pulled my credit reports today from all bureaus and it is showing 120 days past due as of XX/XX/2016. My account was in deferment during that time.
3908,"I checked in with Navient only to find out I owed over $ XXXX in debt to the agency. It said the consolidation included XXXX XXXX University. Any online course I took through XXXX XXXX was paid for in full and in cash. I did not use any loans for this University. When I tried to speak with them to receive my promissory note and consolidation information, they were less than helpful. I still do not know how I manage to owe over $ XXXX in loans. I was forced to pay over $ XXXX/month, which was not sustainable and they refused to lower the payments. When I asked to forbear, they flatly refused. I still have n't be able to see a breakdown of all of this money owed, as when I came out of college I did not owe anything close to $ XXXX."
7657,"Have been paying on this loan for several years with little to no effect on balance, often pay extra. Bills do not come in regularly and when they do arrive the amount due is different. Have tried many times to contact this lender, as to let my wife be able to handle questions in my absence, to no availe. Furthermore, have been told that this is a federal loan and also that it is n't."
312,Borrowed {$5000.00} for college and have been paying on the loan since XXXX and now in XXXX still owe {$3000.00}.
891,"I have been on XXXX since XXXX. Every year the date by which I must renew my application for this payment program changes. It 's been moved from XXXX XXXX, XXXX, to XXXX XXXX, XXXX, to XXXX XXXX, XXXX. This last date is particularly alarming because in order to complete the reapplication requires information from a completed tax return. However, the application renewal date is PRIOR to the IRS tax return filing date! Further, the notice I received this year did not provide a "" reapply by date, '' but rather stated, "" You must complete your application within 10 days of XXXX XXXX. '' Well, is this business days, calendar days, what? Why would n't they simply provide a specific date? And, why is it not the SAME RENEWAL date each year? It seems that the constantly changing renewal date -- which by the way, bears no relation to the date of my original grant of XXXX in XXXX, thereby often requiring that I renew in LESS than 12 months -- is a blatant attempt to catch borrowers by surprise such that they miss the renewal date. By missing their renewal date, Navient may force these borrowers to enter expensive rehabilitation programs before being allowed back onto the XXXX program, plus they will miss they credit for payments made outside the XXXX program! Renewal should be required not more than 30 days before the end of any 12-month payment program, and should NEVER be permitted to be required PRIOR to the standard XXXX XXXX deadline for filing tax returns! ( I attended XXXX, graduating in XXXX. )"
4824,"Just received information about the lawsuit filed against XXXX to repay the loans that students took out based on their illegal predatory lending partners. I took out a private loan via XXXX XXXX when I went to XXXX XXXX in XXXX XXXX, New Jersey. The post-graduation hiring rates were vastly lower than expected, most of my classmates actually went on to work in different fields than that which they studied at XXXX. The "" teacher '' must have had little to no teaching credentials seeing as the in class book work was rarely done properly. At the end of my program, expecting to receive more assistance than I did from the career services department, it took me months to get hired at all, and I spent the first month of employment working at an location who had no previous affiliation with the school and whose method of operation was horrendous. I was hired at my current location based on a recommendation by a previous classmate. This location had an affiliation with the school and offered a loan repayment incentive for all graduates of XXXX. XXXX services, however, did not mention that I had to be hired before graduation and also did n't push me to see this employer before graduating. I did not receive this loan repayment incentive and am now having trouble paying this loan back while I 'm also paying back my federal loans. I am being harassed continually by their collectors. My phone rings at least XXXX times on a slow day with them calling me. They have called me at work and at all kinds of obscene hours, both too early and too late in the day. I have tried to reach out to a loan forgiveness program when I heard that a classmate of mind received information on reducing her private loan debt, but the information was a dead end. I feel that XXXX did not hold up their end of the bargain and fed me to the sharks with this private loan. And now, since the lawsuit against XXXX XXXX has been taken up XXXX XXXX XXXX has since transfered it 's loan accounts, or at least mine to University XXXX XXXX, XXXX. I have been out of school since 2013 and paying back my loan since then, now having made payments to XXXX different companies and yet have only started to make a dent in the principal balance I borrowed. I have been paying them interest, emptying my pockets to line theirs and have been digging myself deeper into debt. I would like some retribution."
2926,"My student loan servicer is Navient. Their website has offers no way to do an additional payment ( in addition to my monthly regular payment ) online, making it unnecessarily difficult to send in an extra payment and to make sure that it goes directly toward my loan 's principal. My wife uses a different servicer, and it is clear and easy to make an additional payment."
9220,"this was under student loan forgiveness program. 
was told it would be removed. I am on XXXX"
1569,Make payments and the principle does n't go down.
3981,I have student loans and wanting to get them forgiven. The school was shut down in XX/XX/2015. I can not pay these loans.
3967,"Hello I am a XXXX veteran XXXX. I recently applied for income repayment and was denied because my only source of income is the XXXX. I have not worked since I left the military. According to the rules, I will not qualify for loan forgiveness because i am not XXXX.i have reached out to my doctor to sign the paperwork for me but va doctors are not easy accessible. i have this debt and no way to pay it and no other options."
9242,"Sallie Mae made 4 robocalls to both my home phone ( XXXX and my cell numbers in one day. I had previously asked that they did not call my cell number but I was fine with home calls. In a discussion with them tonight I felt harassed by four calls in one day especially since the person who took out the loan had made arrangements earlier in the day for payment. She had also contacted them before about payment and is in the process of having my name removed as a co-signer. The person I was talking to raised her voice and told me it was within guidelines to call that many times. I feel her talking angrily and unprofessionally to me was demeaning and unnecessary. I asked to talk to a supervisor. XXXX XXXX, the supervisor, again told me this was not harassment. I feel four calls after arrangements were made is four too many not to mention 2 of them were to a number I asked them not to call."
6749,"I have had my federal student loans in a forebearance status due to financial difficulties. I have explained this to Navient on multiple occasions and asked that my private student loans be offered a forbearance or similar waiver to coincide with my federal loans. I was not offered any assistance or alternatives, but instead told I had to repay my loans despite the hardships I was experiencing. Due to me not being able to pay, my private student loan went into collections, which has made it difficult for me to obtain credit. I am currently in good standing with my federal loans with an approved forbearance status."
78,"I consolidated my loans in XXXX of 2009 to become eligible for the public service loan forgiveness ( PSLF ) program. The servicer at the time was XXXX. Despite documentation from XXXX that my loans were consolidated as income contingent in XXXX 2009, email proof I continued to argue for income contingent between XXXX and XXXX 2009, and documentation supporting that my payment should have been {$0.00} and qualified for PSLF, the current servicer XXXX has taken over a year to review my appeal. I have provided supplementary material twice and requested to see the documents provided by XXXX demonstrating I requested a forbearance when it would not be in my best interest and I have proof to the contrary. My requests for documentation have been ignored. Each time I provide material I receive an email stating that information provided by XXXX shows that my payments did not count -- yet I 'm not being allowed to view that information. This assertion, if not corrected, will cost me 7 months and XXXX {$3000.00}. I had an attorney send in a letter in XXXX via certified mail. We were afforded no response and I was required to re-upload the documents in XXXX despite having the mail receipt. 

This issue is similar to the issue I faced with XXXX where my repeated requests to lower my interest rate to 6 % were ignored. For 14 months I have been trying to find the number of payments and dispute those payments and I 'm being slow-rolled, kept in the dark, and provided with non-responsive answers. I am happy to provide your office with the letters I have written, the letter prepared by the attorney in the legal assistance office at XXXX, all of the enclosures backing up my arguments, and the non-responsive emails provided by the servicer. 

The cost of a lawsuit will most likely exceed {$3000.00} and the 7 additional months it will take before my loans are forgiven. I am being treated as if there is no recourse mechanism. I know there are XXXX other individuals facing similar issues with the PSLF program stationed in my area alone. For instance, if a servicemember pays just XXXX dollar more than what is owed, the payments do n't count and they tack months on the back end towards forgiveness ( that practice smacks of loan-shark-like tactics ). I had to fight for months to have my loans consolidated and I have to fight each time my loan is transferred. I hate to reach out for help but XXXX has exhausted my patience. Any help you could provide would be much-appreciated. 

My issues started after I consolidated into the PSLF program after I graduated from XXXX and started in the XXXX XXXX."
555,"I XXXX from college with a XXXX in XXXX XXXX. I then went to XXXX. When I was accepted into XXXX I was also trying to get financial aid to help pay for the XXXX. They accepted y request for aid under the circumstance that i paid off my Perkins loan. They would NOT release my money for the XXXX until it was paid, I then paid the load in full, they released my money almost when I was about to XXXX the XXXX. 
Two years later I received a notice from the attorney general saying that my Perkins loan was never paid. I called the school and they said that it was paid and then re opened for some reason. I have been dealing with this for YEARS now and every year they take money from my income tax. I have been fighting this for quite some time now and my credit is hurting because it shows on there that i have a default loan in the Attorney Generals office."
5338,I tried calling them to get help with my private loan payment cause the amount they looking for me to pay is to high with the other household bills I have. The one person told me that I should n't have gotten a car and paid them but my car was XXXX and i needed a way to get back and forward to work and my kids to school. They are rude and not helpful at all.
1361,"I work in a XXXX, Windham professionals has contacted me several times at work, as our organization uses a shared phone line, I have at times been able to set up a payment plan to resolve my student loan debts, but there is no clear way to communicate with them if their payment is drawn too early, or if I miss one, to resolve it. I know first hand the damage a debt collector can do to someone 's employment. I have an enormous student loan burden I am working to pay off with a very modest income. 

Windham professionals is endangering my livelihood with their aggressive, irresponsible and unprofessional tactics. it is very obvious when they call that they are a debt collector, as they announce such and that it is an attempt to collect a debt. They identify who they are looking for AFTER this announcement rather than simply asking to speak to me. I have asked them repeatedly not to call me at work or during work hours as it interrupts appointments and activities, requires personal information to be shared, and essentially tells my supervisor, coworkers AND clients that i am working on repaying student loans. Today a coworker forwarded a call at about XXXX while I was with a client, the debt collector repeatedly ignored my concerns and made every attempt to get me to confirm that I was unwilling to pay my loan, which is not the case, they do not call me during hours I can answer, and their return line goes to a general voice line. I would LOVE to actually arrange a resolution with them but I do n't want to go over my student loan debt and payment processes in front of a group of XXXX. The individual who contacted me today, and essentially bullied his way into a very public discussion told me that if it was important to me, I could call HIS line. I was given the number XXXX to call back which does not actually tell me who I should speak to at all. They call me during work, on my work line, which I have asked them repeatedly not to use, they do n't give me a reasonable way to return their calls and they do it during a time I ca n't even answer."
1059,"Subject : Problems with TG XXXX I got into a Loan Rehab program for my defaulted loans with the servicing provider TG ( Texas Guaranteed XXXX ) who was the gurantor. At the time, TG had XXXX XXXX to be the servicer of the my loans since XXXX. TG agreed to delete my loans from default and remove them from my credit ( See, Exhibit A1 and Exhibit A2 ). I successfully completed the rehab program. I contacted ( TG ) directly and they said they notified XXXX XXXX ( The servicer ) to remove the credit file from each of the credit bureaus. ( TG ) told me that it should take up to 60 days for XXXX XXXX to remove it according to XXXX - Loan rehabilitation agreement. It has now been close to 500 days and they have not been removed. ( Exhibit "" B '' is a sample listing on Experian showing defaulted loans ). TG also stated that the problem is with XXXX XXXX because they handled there part. 
I 'm preparing to shop for a mortgage and was told those defaulted loans still showing on my credit will keep me from getting the best interest rate. I 'm requesting your assistance to correct this error that is being caused by either TG and XXXX XXXX on these loans since the defaults do not reflect my current payment status and agreed upon rehab arrangements. 
Bigger Issue : I have asked the XXXX credit bureaus to help as well. The last time I asked for help from credit bureaus ( Exhibit E ) was on XXXX/XXXX/XXXX. I also asked XXXX XXXX to remove these items as well ( Exhibit C ) and sent them a letter ( Exhibit D ) on XXXX/XXXX/XXXX. I am needing for the loan guarantor which is TG to have their service provider XXXX XXXX to remove these defaulted loans from my credit immediately as agreed with the TG provider who is the loan guarantor of my loans. My student loans are showing multiple times on my credit as the defaulted loans still show and the current loans show. So if I miss a payment on my current loan, I will be penalized twice on my credit report for the same loan. By TG not working with their servicer XXXX XXXX to delete the accounts is in violation of Section 623 ( a ) ( 2 ) of the FCRA. FTC advisory opinion : XXXX which interprets Section 623 ( a ) ( 2 ) of the FCRA. The issue posed in the advisory opinion is how a lender is to handle a situation when subsequent information updates a report that was allegedly accurate when it was made but no longer is accurate in the present time. The advisory opinion states that the Section 623 ( a ) ( 2 ) of the FCRA addresses the duty to correct and update information by "" furnishers, '' or persons who furnish information to consumer reporting agencies ( "" CRA '' ) such as credit bureaus. In particular, this section requires a person that "" has furnished to a consumer reporting agency information that the person determines is not complete or accurate '' to "" promptly notify the consumer reporting agency of that determination '' and provide any information needed to make it complete and accurate. Thus, on its face, this provision requires a furnisher to provide corrected or updated information to the consumer reporting agency that it had reported to originally. This duty extends to all student loan accounts reported to CRAs, regardless of whether they were accurate at one point, because the section requires the furnisher both to "" update '' accounts as well as to "" correct. ''"
6782,I consigned multiple loans with XXXX XXXX for my daughter starting in 2009. She has finally been XXXX and she works part time for minimum wage and is unable to find a full time job so I 'm paying. Navient is horrible to deal with. I get multiple bills every month and I do n't know at this point how much is owed for what loan. When it was will XXXX XXXX it was simpler my XXXX loan of XXXX was almost paid up but now Navient takes your money and applies it as they will even though debt companies say you should pay off asap. They have taken that choice from me. Furthermore I was paying some of the loans before they were due while my daughter was in school and all of that acceleration seems to be wiped out. I have asked them to mail me an accounting of all the loans over and over again but they route me to a website which is difficult for me. I feel as if I am being exploited for them to make as much money from me as possible instead of allowing me to pay off the smaller earlier loans earlier.
588,I am set to begin repaying my loans on XXXX XXXX. I called navient to see what my payment options were and they gave me what my monthly payments would be. I asked if the payments could be lowered and they told me that was the lowest they could go. By XXXX I will be paying about {$400.00} and this is not something that I can afford. I believe that these companies are setting newly graduated students up for failure and it is a shame. While I do understand this money needs to be paid back it needs to be done in a decent fashion.
1047,"I owed a student loan in the amount of about {$6000.00}, I received a letter from Sallie Mae, stating my loans were paid in full, then I find out they are in the hands of XXXX and now my loans are triple what I owed in the beginning. Now I am on a deferment until XXXX with more penalty and interest added. I ca n't afford to pay all this back for 17 years."
1851,"I have been enrolled in the IBR program since finishing graduate school XX/XX/2012. I have followed protocol flawlessly during that time. This year, however, due to an exceptionally busy schedule of work, travel, and moving, I missed the re-enrollment deadline by under a week. My servicer NelNet acted quickly, informing me that the interest accrued during the last year ( over {$25000.00} ) would be applied to my principal balance. Now, I fully admit to missing the deadline but what I find incredulous is that there is no way to appeal this decision or negotiate what essentially works out to be a penalty as is commonly done in business and loans. It 's laughable. The best the customer service agent could do was offer me a phone call from a supervisor sometime in the next couple days, and could n't even confirm the number I should expect to receive a call from nor that the supervisor would leave a voicemail in the case I was unavailable to answer. I understand that the impetus is on the consumer to keep abreast of policy and plan details, but the fact that there is absolutely no avenue to appeal or flexibility in any matter is borderline predatory. Also, as the agent confirmed, I can only receive electronic OR mail correspondence. Not both. That alone is baffling. It is also severely decreasing the likelihood that this loan will ever be paid in full."
8762,I have contacted Navient trying to lower my payment for my student XXXX student loans. I have suggested a payment of XXXX dollar monthly because at this time that is all I can afford. Navient then proceeded to tell me that they declined the request because not only do they not accept international schooling but they also wo n't because I have run short of deferment time. I am really trying to settle this loan because I am about to graduate in a year. They then proceeded to threaten me with sending my account to collection as well as sueing my grandmothers and putting a lien on their homes. I feel that the way that they are responding to me and not willing to assist me is byfar not the proper business ethic and value that American business culture embodies.
9443,"I agreed that Navient ( services XXXX student loans ) could go into my checking account for XXXX to pay on my student loan ( a combination of my loan and interest on my college student son interest of his student loan ). Navient went in my bank account and took XXXX leaving my account XXXX dollars over drawn. I incurred insufficient fund fees and was left with out money for travel to work and gas fees. My family depends on me since I am the sole provider in my household. I sent Navient faxes of my bank statement showing them the error and my bank states Navient, does this quite frequently to their customers XXXX I talked to Navient to in sure they had received my request to return the stolen money and they agreed to put the money back in my account in 2-3 weeks. this is the third week and still no returned money, no letter of apology. I know I owe them a debt but it is so dishonest to take money out of my account that they had no permission to take almost XXXX dollars. I was not in a delinquent status. Please help me retrieve what they have taken."
8958,"I co signed on my daughters student loan some years ago. She stopped school and I encouraged her to realize the loan would become due and to setup a repayment plan. I went into bankruptcy in XXXX but continued my own student loan payments. I assumed she was taking care of hers. My attorney listed the debt and said it would be "" taken care of '' ( all my own payments were on time ). I ended bankruptcy in XXXX XXXX and the case was soncluded XXXX XXXX. I found out the loan was in default via a phone call from the collection dept and this was XX/XX/XXXX. I verified my daughter knew and was unemployed. She would get back to them. XXXX XXXX XXXX the collection agency of wells fargo took {$3600.00}. from my account via a "" written check ''. I called and they said they would give back some of the money {$1400.00} but it never happened. Wells fargo cant help me as they say its a separate department and they do what they want. Now I have a direct deposit and my tax refund coming. even though they say they wont take these it appears they lie because they promised my funds returned by Tues XX/XX/XXXX.. My income has been reduced by half. Im 6 years away from retirement and losing my vision so I do worry about how long ill be able to work. I need that money."
3915,I borrowed from XXXX/Naviant back in XX/XX/2011 and have since graduated. I am a XXXX with a XXXX and a husband who works part time so we can avoid paying child care. We live pay check to pay check and I have called Naviant who asks for XXXX $ so dollars from me each month to get an income based plan and have been told no. They put me in forbearance and have killed my credit. They have made me intimidated to call and make me feel like they could care less if I am struggling to pay. I do n't know what to do anymore and continue to go in forbearance because this is the solution they offer.
5213,"I can not contact a private lender listed on my credit report. The report states that I have not paid my loan, however, I can not contact anyone to see if the amount is accurate and how to make payments. The company is listed as "" Younomics. ''"
3962,"My original lender was XXXX XXXX and my loans were turned over to Navient where they went through several changes and went from stafford to private loans without my consent. They have gone from subsidized to unsubsidized repeatedly without any explanation. They are listed multiple times on my credit report. They are listed as XXXX XXXX, US Department of Education, and some as Navient. They each have multiple listings for the loans and I ca n't make any sense of it. I have been turned down by lenders due to the inconsistency on my credit reports with my student loans. Under the Navient website they have multiple loans for multiple amounts which I do not recall taking out, many of which have the same disbursement dates which I do n't understand if it was disbursed on the same day then why is n't it just one loan instead of multiples? This is very misleading and shady. I can recall once I was in prison which was suppose to be covered under either forbearance or deferment but I was denied eligibility. The school is also saying I owe them for loans that were returned to the lender and I had to drop the class but still show in my balance. Something needs to be done about these predators."
1087,"I have been enrolled in IBR for 6 years, paying through FedLoan. On XXXX XXXX, XXXX, I submitted a request through XXXX to be considered for Repaye. On XXXX XXXX, XXXX, I received letter from FedLoan, telling me to recertify my income, and to submit recertification info by XXXX XXXX, XXXX. If I did not recertify, my payment would be switched to standard repayment. On XXXX XXXX, XXXX, I requested an update from FedLoan on my request for new payment plan. I was told, via email, FedLoan had received my request, and that it may take 60 days. On XXXX XXXX, XXXX, I called FedLoan and asked for update. I was told they were "" sorry, '' but because I recertified for IBR subsequent to my request for new payment plan, my initial request for new payment plan was ignored. If I want to be considered for new payment plan, I have to start the process over. I have been waiting for approximately 4 months for an answer to my request. No one contacted me about my initial request and the fact that it has been ignored. Additionally, the information I have received from FedLoan has been misleading and untruthful. Finally, no where is there information that I could not apply for a different plan, just because I also needed to recertify my income. 
The email from FedLoan ( my initial question is below the response ) : Thank you for contacting FedLoan Servicing! We received your request for an Income- Driven Repayment ( IDR ) plan on XXXX XXXX, XXXX. Once your request is processed, we will send you a notice with the results. 
If your request is approved, it may take approximately 1-2 billing cycles for your new repayment plan to take effect. You will need to continue to make your regular monthly payments until you receive your first bill with a new payment amount. 
We recommend that you use the "" Contact Us '' links on our website, www.MyFedLoan.org, to submit inquiries via a secure email form. You may also call us toll-free at ( XXXX ) XXXX to reach our Customer Service Department, which is open Monday through Friday from XXXX until XXXX ( ET ). 
Sincerely, XXXX FedLoan Servicing -- - Original Message -- - On XXXX XXXX, XXXX at XXXX, wrote : Account : First Name : Last Name : Date of Birth : I have contacted the XXXX. My request for change of repayment plans has been "" closed, '' and was been forwarded to you some time ago. What is the status?"
3701,"My student loan servicer is FedLoan Servicing. For several years I have been on the Income Based Repayment ( IBR ) plan, and my monthly payments were automatically deducted from my checking account. From the start of my repayment period in 2012 until recently, I have had no issues, and my payments were always made on time. Late last year, I applied to transition from IBR to the new REPAYE plan, as this would save me nearly {$300.00} each month. Months later, I am still waiting for the switch to happen, and the process has been a complete nightmare. I have called repeatedly to check the status and find out what further steps I could take to expedite the process, and continue to be told that the process is underway. In a few instances, I have been given conflicting advice or information by FedLoan Servicing employees and supervisors. For example, I was informed ( by a supervisor ) that I needed to make a {$5.00} forbearance payment to complete the switch ; I made that payment, only to be told later by another employee that that payment did not in fact do anything to advance this process ( the payment was simply applied to my balance, but did not affect the IBR-to-REPAYE process ). So, FedLoan Servicing had me make a separate {$4.00} payment, and I was assured that this payment was the only thing that I needed to do to finish that switch to REPAYE. An employee even told me that they would request that the process be expedited. And yet, XXXX month later I am still waiting. I called again today only to be told that the {$4.00} payment did not count, as it was {$0.00} short. But I simply paid what I was told ; the employee I spoke to told me this was a recurring problem, and that I -- and others in my situation -- should have received a payment request for {$5.00}. So, today, I have made, for the third time, the payment that is purportedly the last step in this process. To be clear, FedLoan Servicing apparently has removed me from IBR, and I am currently on the Standard Repayment plan. But because my repayment terms under this plan are far too onerous, I have had to make repeated forbearance requests while I wait for FedLoan Servicing to move me to REPAYE. I believe that this transition from IBR to REPAYE has been completely mishandled by FedLoan Servicing. It should not take six months to make a switch from XXXX repayment plan to another. I have now gone from having several years of consistent, on-time payments, to a record of several forbearances. This should have been much smoother, and I suspect that things would have been even worse had I not repeatedly called FedLoan Servicing. This is also incredibly XXXX to me because I intend to take advantage of Public Service Loan Forgiveness ( PSLF ), but for each month that I am on a forbearance -- while I wait to be put onto REPAYE -- I am not making on-time, qualifying payments that will count toward PLSF. The sad part is that I am in a position to make payments right now under either IBR or REPAYE, but FedLoan Servicing has left me stuck in Standard Repayment purgatory. Through its actions, FedLoan Servicing has made the benefits of REPAYE illusory to individuals like myself. I fear for myself and other borrowers in my situation."
6452,"I have been receiving unemployment since XXXX of XXXX. My benefits were exhausted in XXXX of XXXX. I have found gainful employment starting in XXXX of XXXX. As a result of my circumstance, I am left unable to make my XXXX and XXXX XXXX payments. 

My unemployment was not a surprise, I had several months notice. During that time, I prepared for the financial loss. One step was to discuss with Citibank the terms of my loan and how many months forbearance were available to me. I was told I had a total of 6 months. I continued to make payments. 

I received a 1 month forbearance of my student loans for XXXX XXXX. I requested the forbearance due to an error in filing for benefits in XXXX, leaving me unable to make my student loan payment. I was granted the forbearance and resumed payments in XXXX XXXX. Before ending the conversation in XXXX, I asked how many months of forbearance I had left on the loan and was told I had 5 months remaining. 

On Monday, XXXX XXXX, XXXX, I requested to have my student loans through Citibank forbeared through the months of XXXX and XXXX of XXXX due to lack of unemployment compensation. I was denied. I pressed and was still denied. I spoke with XXXX, she relayed my situation to her superior. XXXX called me back and informed me that I would was not eligible for forbearance. I asked to speak with her superior and she told me my only recourse was to write a letter. 

Strangely, XXXX called me back on Thursday, XXXX XXXX, XXXX. I was surprised to hear from her. She started our conversation by informing me that I was, in fact, eligible for a forbearance. She then guided me through a worksheet where she, once again, told me I was not eligible. I was very confused. We were having the same conversation that took place on Monday. XXXX forgot that she had already followed up on my account. XXXX also apologized for telling me that I was eligible for two months forbearance, because by the end of the conversation, I would not be receiving a suspension of payments. 

I believe that I am being denied my 2 month request of forbearance unfairly."
2227,"In XXXX 2010, I transferred my consolidated federal loans to FedLoan Servicing so that I could be a part of the Public Service Loan Forgiveness ( PSLF ) program. This program says that when you make 120 on-time qualifying payments while working full-time at a qualifying public service job for 120 months, your loans can be forgiven. 

When I transferred my consolidated Federal loans over to be a part of PSLF, I remained on an Extended Standard Repayment Plan ( 25 years ). I had a phone conversation with a FedLoan Servicing customer service representative to confirm I was doing everything correctly so that I would qualify at the end of my 120 payments. I was told that all I needed to do was submit paperwork from my employer to prove my service throughout the 120 months. That is what I remember and took away from the conversation. After years of making repayments, I have come to realize I have been on the wrong repayment plan. I should have been on the Income-Based Repayments Plan. I think that FedLoan Servicing did a really poor job at communicating this and made those terms very unclear. Also, I was paying more on the Extended Standard Repayment Plan ( {$350.00} ) than I would have on the Income Based Repayment Plan ( {$200.00} ). I would like those years of service and loan payments to count toward my loan forgiveness."
8964,"I am a full-time student. I asked my mother to help me figure out how to manage my student loans. She helped me file for consolidation and deferment through XXXX. When she called Navient to inquire about how to ensure they had current information and what options I had to get current, after waiting on hold for over XXXX minutes and having to call again, she was told that she had to pay MY back balance by Monday, XXXX XXXX or they were going to default my loan. That was stressed as the only option. When she asked for copies of the promissory notes to be sent by email, she was told that they "" had to do that now that she asked for them '' but it had to go through the legal department and would not be in time for the XXXX XXXX deadline that he set. I am not sure that any information they gave me is correct as far as how to manage this debt as a full-time student with obviously limited income."
6138,"I have a loan with Sallie Mae that i signed with a cosigner to help me pay for college. I have never adjusted the original terms of the loan since I took it out, even though I make only {$20000.00} a year. I called to ask for lower monthly payments from the current {$340.00} a month that I pay. This amount is nearly 20 % of my monthly income and does not even include my XXXX other student loan payments. The other XXXX I have allowed me to be put on an income based repayment plan, but not Sallie Mae. ( Not to mention my Sallie Mae loan has an interest rate 3 % -4 % higher than any of my other loans ) I have been a good borrower in the 5 years since I left college yet they refuse to work with me. The only option they offer is deferment. Putting the loan on hold for 3 months while still collecting interest is not going to be a long term solution for me. Yes, they would love it if I kept putting my loan on deferment I 'm sure because it means more money in their pocket. They do n't care it does absolutely nothing to help the borrower. 

The lender is supposed to be serving the borrower, not the other way around. My experiences with this company have been nothing but awful. I would recommend anyone who needs a loan, student or otherwise, to get it anywhere else but Sallie Mae. I have never dealt with such a horrible company in my life. I call ahead of time to let them know I ca n't make the payment and they tell me that the collections department wont even speak to me until I let my loan payment go late. Once it goes late however, they have no problem harassing me 7 times a day. Then I call them back only to wait on hold for an hour and to be told that no changes will be made to my loan. 

I am now left in a position where I can continue to pay the loans and have nothing left over to try and improve my life ( like finishing the few classes I have left on my degree, or moving into my own apartment ) or I can destroy my credit while improving my situation, because the XXXX loan i have that takes up 20 % of my income refuses to help a proven good borrower. Learn from my experience and do yourself a favor. NEVER get a loan with Sallie Mae."
2397,"I was making double payment when possible, sometimes triple payments in a month thinking the other payments were going to the principle, to pay the loan off quicker. But looking at statements navient was still putting every payment to intereste, then to the principal. When I email them, asking why it was like that they told me it was a government right to collect interest on all payments. Why can you make double payments on a car or credit card where the second payment goes fully to the principal, but not on loans. It makes impossible to pay loans faster."
6451,"Long story short. Back in XX/XX/2010 : I was in the process of paying XXXX payments in a row in attempt to bring accounts current. I was told if I could complete the XXXX payments in a row this would bring my accounts current and I would no longer have late fees. I noticed the XXXX payment did not automatically come out of my account. I did proactively call to uncover why. My goal here was to ensure the account would be brought up to date with no late fees, etc. I was trying to make good and do my best. The rep did take my payment and did assure me the account was brought up to current status, all late fees removed etc. This was when I was informed the accounts were frozen throughout the bankruptcy. They explained that this was why the payment did not come out of the account. When rep explained to me that accounts were frozen for the duration of the bankruptcy I made him assured me that my final payment brought me up to date, no late fees, and the loan would be the same once the bankruptcy was over. He said yes and made me feel as if I was on the right track with Sallie mae ( Now XXXX ). I was not informed anything about interest continuing to accrued for XXXX years on a daily bases. Why would n't he have told me this when I was checking on status and making sure accounts would be the same after the XXXX years. I am so taken back that XXXX of interest accrued over the XXXX years. The rep assured me account was current and that they were frozen so could not receive payment for those years. I do feel that they did not provide all the details and XXXX % did not tell me about interest accruing over those years. I feel as if they purposely did not tell me interest would a crew daily over the XXXX years of bankruptcy. Why would n't they have let me know this when I was being proactive. I was the one that did call after they were frozen to ensure I was doing my part, etc. I think this was very wrong and was definitely misleading. I feel as if I was misled as he took my payment and assured me the accounts would be the same after bankruptcy. XXXX is the large company here and I feel like they have a responsibility to help its student borrower. Should n't this technicality have been made clear to me as I was the co-signer and not in bankruptcy. I was trying to do my best. Is it normal for a large company to gloss over such an important piece of information? I can not help but feel like this is an example of a large corp taking advantage of someone who did not have the proper information. This could have been provided to me when I called. Why was it not? 

I am the co-signer on the a few loans. I feel as if the amount of interest and the amount owed is actually incorrect. My father filed chapter XXXX bankruptcy. Sallie mae could have been paid throughout the course of the XXXX year bankruptcy however, filed late for this portion. When they came back to request payment the judge declined as payments were already divided up. I do not believe I should be accountable for sallie mae not meeting the time requirement and missing the initial pay out for the XXXX years. This XXXX years of payments would have decrease the amount owed as well as the amount of interest that would have accrued. Once again : I do not fully understand why I would be liable for this full amount when sallie mae could have been paid the XXXX years and interest would not have mathematically accrued at that rate. I am very upset and depressed about this. As anyone knows : XXXX is a large amount and essentially years of my life The rep could have told me as I was in my early XXXX with no idea. Please help me! I have no clue where to go as my next step ... These are private student loans but did not get removed in bankruptcy as they are "" student loans '' however, sallie mae refuses to work with me on refinancing and I also do not qualify for the XXXX year payment plan since they are private. 
Please help me!"
1907,"I became XXXX and lost a huge portion of my income. Navient kept piling interest on my loan while I could not pay my loan. Navient informed me that if I choose to request forgiveness of my loan, I still have to pay taxes on the forgiven loan amount as if it was ordinary income. If I could n't afford to pay my student loan payment, how in the world would I be able to pay the IRS half the total value of my loan plus interest?????? Not possible! This is a catch XXXX for loan recipients who become XXXX."
9912,"I have been in repayment of my student loan for almost 4 years now. Over this time period there have been many occasions in which I made payment but still received collection calls. After the first call I resolved the issue ( or so I thought ) but still receive repeated calls with the explanation that they ca n't stop calling until they resolve the problem. I receive calls every few hours with no end even after wasting hours in the beginning sorting out the issue. I believe the only purpose of the calls is so they can have a record that they attempted to collect the debt, not to actually help resolve the problem. I understand mistakes are made but this has happened multiple times without any apology or attempt to resolve the issue. If the error is the fault of the company I should never receive another follow up call if it 's taking them time to resolve. There was one situation in particular that I had to deal with a month of harassing calls every few hours daily because Citibank deposited my payment into the wrong account and they were unable to resolve the problem expeditiously or take me off the call list."
8302,"I am getting continued phone calls from American Education Services ( AES ) about a student loan of our Daughter, XXXX XXXX. I am not a co-signer, guarantor, reference, etc. on XXXX 's loan, and XXXX, who does not live with us anymore, has her own phone number ; which has and has acknowledged that they have. It appears that AES is engaged in illegal collection activities, and is calling us parents to put pressure on student loan borrowers. It also seems that AES may be engaged in other questionable ways of doing business that the CFPB should investigate. 

XXXX I do n't think has ever been late on her student loan for several years, but last month missed a payment date, so she was maybe XXXX days late. XXXX says that she is now current and that she paid AES. Despite that, AES keeps calling me. AES said that they would stop, but they continue to call me. AES also claims that they can call whenever they want to call, because I am her Dad. AES also called other family members. 

It seems that AES is trying to make XXXX look bad. It seems that AEs is trying to harass XXXX by calling people that she knows, so that XXXX will not be late again. These type of phone calls are illegal under Indiana law ; which states that once a consumer tells a party to stop calling, they are required to stop. AES ignores the law. This tactic may also violate the FDCPA."
246,"Fedloan Servicing is the company servicing my consolidated student loan. I have monthly Direct Debit on my account, and have never missed any payments in over a decade. I am in the process of changing banks, and immediately following the account drafting in XX/XX/XXXX I went onto Fedloan Servicing 's website to change my Direct Debit information. At the time I set up the direct debit, it stated it would take several days to set up ; however, weeks later my direct debit did not draft. I logged into my account when Fedloan sent an email informing me I had missed a payment. 

As a result of Fedloan Servicing 's failure to timely establish the Direct Debit for this account, I now have a negative credit report for a missed student loan payment. My husband changed the Direct Debit for his student loans serviced by XXXX on the same day at the same time and had absolutely no issues with the timely changeover of banking information."
5622,"I have private student loans from XXXX different schools. I have tried to make payment arrangements on these loans, but the lenders are not willing to work out or offer an affordable or reasonable loan repayment plan. I receive letters and numerous phone calls with the same end result."
7912,"I have a private loan serviced through Navient with an exorbitant interest fee ( nearly 10 % ). I have been paying the loan on time for over a year. The online portal is telling me that I am eligible for an interest rate deduction of 2 % since I have been making payments on-time ( SMART reward benefit ). It has been over a month since I became eligible for this reward and it still has not been applied to my account. I have emailed Navient and called Navient customer service over 3 times. Each time I am told a different story and that they need to "" research '' if I am actually eligible for this reward. If my online account tells me I am eligible I do n't understand the disconnect/run-around of determining my actual eligibility. I would like a clear cut answer as to why these rewards are n't applied as soon as the borrower becomes eligible. It seems to me Navient is benefiting financially by postponing the application of this interest rate deduction at the expense of the borrower. This seems to be inappropriate loan servicing conduct and I would like this to be investigated."
2885,Sallie Mae does n't provide a form XXXX for student loan interest.
4592,"I am a recent graduate of the University XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX in XXXX XXXX, FL. I applied for a Sallie Mae XXXX study loan in XXXX. I was approved with a cosigner. After approval, Sallie Mae needed my cosigner to electronically sign the note. My cosigner was unable to electronically sign due to an ongoing error with Sallie Mae 's website. We requested a paper copy of the paperwork be sent. Sallie Mae sent my cosigner documents which he signed and sent back. I was then informed by Sallie Mae that the paperwork they had sent was the wrong paperwork, and that they would need to send the proper forms. Despite informing me that the forms would be put in the mail multiple times since XXXX, nothing ever arrived to my cosigner. I call Sallie Mae on a daily basis and am shuffled around and transferred to multiple people, who seem unable to send out a simple form. It is now two months later and I am still waiting to obtain the funds from my loan. I am repeatedly promised that the problem is being handled, but no one has resolved this simple issue."
5222,"I am the borrower. I sent forms to Navient to update the bank account for monthly automatic draft payment from my bank, for XXXX different loan payments. I received a generic confirmation by mail that did n't show the date the payment would be drafted or much other information. Navient set up XXXX of the XXXX payments so that it would be drafted after the due date and they could charge me a late fee. The first month after the account was updated, I noticed the payment was n't drafted from my bank account so I logged into the Navient website to check on it. The Navient site confirms that the loan payment is set up for automatic payment which they call "" Auto Pay. '' The payment was marked "" Pending '' on the website. I have printouts of this from the website. There was no indication what day the automatic payment would be drafted from my bank. I immediately paid again by using Navient 's website to pull another draft from my bank, but Navient charged me a "" late '' fee for that month and then drafted BOTH payments from my bank account. Navient has n't given me the option on how to apply the extra payment. Navient intentionally set up the automatic draft so that it would draft after the due date and they could scam a late fee from me. The payment that Navient decided to draft on time was the Federal consolidation loans. The payment that Navient decided to draft late was the private business education loan. Navient set up the call-in help line so that it is almost impossible to reach a person. Navient 's number disconnects callers after they have been going through the menus for minutes. If the caller ca n't find an option that describes their situation the call disconnects. If the caller takes too long ( per Navient ) the call disconnects. If the caller calls after work the call disconnects, because Navient closes the line outside daytime weekdays. Navient has done everything they can, short of disconnecting their phone altogether, to add on illegal fees and avoid talking to borrowers and avoid making corrections."
8307,"We have been contacted over and over for the past year by Navient student loans and they say our loan number is XXXX. These are loans we believe we paid under several other companies like XXXX. We have begged over and over for them to PROVE the loans and show us paperwork. They have not provided us that information but harrassed us enough that we are now paying the loan to Navient XXXX XXXX XXXX pa XXXX. We are asking for proof we owe this money as it is XXXX dollars and we just want proof. Can you help us? XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX, XXXX Ca XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX. If they can not prove, can we get our money back??? The schools that might be involved are XXXX XXXX, XXXX University, XXXX XXXX University, XXXX XXXX University, California. I can not say which school these loans are associated with as they will not provide proof."
269,"I 've noticed that student loan repayments made on line by myself are immediately deducted from my checking account in real time - yet these monies in real time transferred to the lender often are not processed toward my loan for 3 whole days resulting in the accumulation of additional interest for these 3 days. Will that change as the "" End Of Early Paydays '' will on XXXX, XXXX resulting in the immediate processing of my loan payment in real time?"
7704,"XX/XX/XXXX my rate reduction plan was extended. This was confirmed after an extensive financial information check by Navient with myself and my consigner. I received a verbal approval from both the representative and their manager plus was given a confirmation number. I verified my banking info and was checking the correct amount came out my account each month since then. Per the conversation in XX/XX/XXXX this plan was set to last 15 months. 
Today, my consigner 's wife informed me Navient called. I called to check in and make sure everything was all set and was told my account was delinquent. I verified my info and the collections department told me my plan back in XX/XX/XXXX had been denied, but I had not need contacted and they had continued to take out the agreed upon amount. I asked to be connected to be connected to the rate reduction plan line and the 90 day delinquency department refused. They told me I must pay the amount they ensured me I was unable to pay months earlier. I was told someone was supposed to follow up with me but never did. They had no documentation on why I was denied or why I was not contacted."
6987,Was a student at XXXX XXXX College and I believe I was a victim of the predatory lending practices.I was also saddle with hight interest private loans that I did not know about until after I found out about there accreditation. And was Fortunate enough to get out. But I 'm still saddled wit almost XXXX dollars worth of bad debt. This was in XX/XX/XXXX and XX/XX/XXXX.
7791,"I have XXXX loans with Navient beginning in 2010 when I started college. I made it so {$25.00} came out of my account twice a month throughout my entire college career to get a jumpstart on my loans when I graduated. Three months ago, {$300.00} was taken out of my account on one of my payment dates. I 'm going to be honest with you, I never got around to looking into it and that was my fault. However, the following payment that had come out was {$420.00} and that was not something I was ready or able to afford. 
I spent countless hours on the phone trying to reduce my payments. As I had stated numerous times, I wanted to pay, I just could not afford the {$720.00} that they were asking of me but because my cosigners could afford the difference, they refused to help me. Since my cosigners do not pay any of my bills, I had to turn off my automatic debit and mercilessly plead with one of the representatives to lower my payments. After days of phone calls, someone was finally able to help me and lowered my payments by {$200.00}. They stated that I absolutely had to pay the {$550.00} fee for 3 months on time and in full otherwise I would be kicked back to my old payments. 
I stalked my accounts making sure that everything went through okay when it was time to make my payment and everything went smoothly. Since I had already paid {$420.00} that month they only took out {$120.00} from my account on XXXX XXXX. 
However, one week later I went on to my account to find that there was a message for me saying that I missed a payment. I immediately called and the woman said that it was just the computer not realizing that my payment had changed and she put in a request to fix it. By Sunday the message that I had missed a payment went away but it was back to my original payments that I could not afford. 
I called today and talked to about XXXX different people. XXXX woman said that my payments were going to continue saying that I was missing payments because Navient sends a report to collections on the XXXX of every month and since XXXX of my old payments was on the XXXX ( It is now on the XXXX ), I would be "" missing payments '' every month. I asked to change my date of payment to the XXXX and the next man said he could do that, but it would n't go through until XXXX. I asked why I would continue to rack up these "" missed payments '' ( that I WAS N'T missing ) and why they could n't just change on my account that I was now asked to pay {$550.00} each month. He was not very helpful, although apologetic, and said that it was not possible. 
I asked to speak to a supervisor who explained to me that because I am in the probationary period for my new plan that it would continue to say that I 'm not paying the correct amount until my three months were up. He was extremely rude in asking why it mattered if I had late payments and when I was asking if this month 's payments would also say I did n't pay online, he stated, "" Well it 's the last day of the month so I 'm assuming you were asking about next month with that question. "" I just can not wrap my head around the fact that I am a customer who is willing to pay on time, every month but Navient is making it impossible to do so. I have tried time and time again to get on my feet with these loans but it is like Navient has purposely put these ridiculous rules in place. 
All I am asking is to get my account to reflect what I AM paying and what Navient agreed I could pay because I have no idea why they would continue to state that I am missing payments when over the last 5 years I have not missed XXXX. Why would there be a different payment online then what Navient expects me to pay? Are they trying to add late fees and bad credit to my name for no reason?"
9295,"I set up a payment plan with Transworld Systems which included a monthly payment amount of {$65.00}. The agreement was signed by me on XXXX/XXXX/15. The letter stated the following : On XXXX/XXXX/2015, you agreed to enter into a Loan Rehabilitation Agreement ( Agreement ) with XXXX ( XXXX ). Once your loan ( s ) is/are rehabilitated : Your loan ( s ) will be removed from default. 
Within forty-five ( 45 ) days of rehabilitation, XXXX will request all nationwide consumer reporting agencies to which the defaultwas reported to remove the record of default from your credit history, and provide notice of the rehabilitation to the prior holder. 
You will regain eligibility for remaining deferments, forbearances and other Title IV financial aid. 
An eligible lender who purchases a rehabilitated loan must establish a repayment schedule that meets the same requirementsthat are applicable to other Federal Family Education Loan ( FFEL ) Program loans of the same loan type, and must permit you tochoose any statutorily available repayment plan for that loan type. This means that if your loan ( s ) is/are rehabilitated, there is apossibility that the required monthly payment amount will increase. 

The payments were automatically debited from my account for 6 consecutive months. I contacted Transworld XX/XX/XXXX to inquire about the payments stopping XX/XX/XXXX ( when I noticed ). They could n't give me a definite answer and wanted be to restart the paperwork all over again. When I continued to insist on a more definite answere, I was told that they could not retrieve the payments from my checking account due to insufficient funds. That statement was completely false and a dishonest practice on their part. I was never contacted by the company about my payments after XX/XX/XXXX and my account has always had the funds available to make the monthly payment arrangement. To insist that I restart the paperwork all over again after only 6 months on the plan is completely unacceptable and disturbing. At the time I signed the agreement, I was told by Transworld that I would rehabilitate my loan after making 9 voluntary on time payments. I thought this was reputable company until this situation happened."
4094,I received a letter and payment coupons from Navient in reference to student loans for the first time this month. I never heard of the company and never had any contact with them prior ( had to research the company ). They stated I had a loan disbursement dated XXXX/XXXX/XXXX ( see the attached document ). I am not sure how that is possible because I did not apply for a loan in XX/XX/XXXX. There was no letter advising on the history of the loan ( how it originated and with whom ). I can not validate this is my loan but I am expected to start payments XXXX/XXXX/XXXX. This is not acceptable. Also the amount expected to be paid is too high and I can not afford it since I recently came out of Bankruptcy.
8775,"I have been in a hardship program with Navient since 2012. I have been making payments without fail every month for almost 5 years. Despite this, it was reported to the credit reports that I am in default and because of this I am unable to get a mortgage. Additionally, I was XXXX last year, and when I called Navient to see about postponing my payments, as I would be on short term XXXX for the duration of my leave, I was told it was impossible. I had to choose between paying Navient or paying my electric bill. It is unfathomable that people who reached the goal of a degree but can not make ends meet. I hope that something can be done for people who are struggling to pay back loans and have a family."
902,My student loan interest seems to be extremely high. It is getting more difficult to enter a payment plan that I can reasonably pay every month.
1527,"Multiple attempts to restructure, forbear or otherwise decrease the loan and payments. My loans date back to XXXX, when I borrowed a total of {$25000.00} dollars. When the housing bubble and then the teck bubble burst, my husband lost work. Many time I had to go into forbearance. I only earned about $ 16/hour but was never offered any other option. In XX/XX/XXXX I begged for any options to help with the loan. I was told they could check on forbearance. It was denied on XXXX stating that I had, "" already used the maximum time allowed for a forbearance. '' Since then I have struggled to make payment, knowing that I had no other options. Now I lean that I had many options. My average income, using line XXXX form my tax forms, was {$28000.00} which places me into or near the 150 % of poverty level mark. Despite this I have never been offered, nor when I asked was I informed, about payment options other than forbearance. In light of the recent litigation against Navient, I believe that I am one of the people who has been harmed by their practices."
2696,"My loans were transferred from XXXX to Nelnet some years back. During the time of transfer, I had automated payment scheduled for XXXX XXXX and used to make payments to XXXX XXXX through auto pay. My interest rate was fixed at 1.25 %. Upon three months of the transfer, Nelnet stopped drawing the funds through auto pay, and claimed I missed two payments. Since I missed those two payments, they doubled my interest rates to 2.5 % along with adding late fees. When I called and complained they stated I needed to fill out a form and authorize Nelnet to draw funds from my account. I was completely unaware of all of this. My complaints on this issue were not considered and my interest rates have remained doubled then what they should be. I did n't know where to go to complain until I heard about the BCFB lawsuit against XXXX. Please help resolve this issue."
7535,"I was sent emails stating that they would assist me with an income-driven repayment plan. Not only was I deceived in their intent to assist me but after numerous delays in processing by Navient to start the deductions, they notified the credit reporting agencies that I was late in my payments and now I have lost XXXX points on my credit report."
9372,At the time of this I went to school at XXXX University and XXXX Ohio and during this time I was joining the XXXX my professor call me out in front of the class because my hair was XXXX and remove me from the class and told me never to show my face at the school again I was harassed and humiliated and the dean would not help me at all therefore I want to fight against this Federal Loan
4372,"I made payment arrangements and I was told the amount would be the same until my loans are paid off. I paid the same amount every month but then when I called to check on the pay off date, I was told that I was behind in my payments. My loans were sent to a collection company. I contacted the company and started making payments to them in the same amount each month. When I called to check on my account, I found out that I was in default for non- payment. I told them that I did n't understand how that was possible because I have the bank statements showing my monthly payments. They returned some of my payments from the company but it was still showing that I was behind on my payments. They recommended that I apply for a forbearance to catch up, so I did. Then, it happened again, I was making regular payments and When I called to check on my Account, I was so far behind ( the a, punt that I needed to pay each month changed and I was n't aware ) that I could n't catch up and they told me that I could do a forbearance to remove the amount that is passed due and start fresh after the months of forbearance."
8702,"Pioneer credit recovery has been harassing me via phone with non stop calls. They are calling my job discussing my debt with people on my job and call people at home, They are calling the human resource director at home and now I may lose my job. Please help. My name is XXXX XXXX. Student loan."
5142,I refinanced a student loan and the amount paid to the old lender I used was more than the balance I owed. I called and ask about a refund and was told that I would receive a check. Two weeks later I called and no check had been issued but they promised that it would be made the following Monday and mailed to me. I asked why it took so long for them to issue a refund and could not get a response from the customer service person or the supervisor.
4720,I have been making a payment with Navient from XX/XX/2009 to XX/XX/XXXX. I have paid over {$22000.00} and My balance has only decreased {$6000.00}. I have to sit on a call with a Navient Representative for over a hour for them to tell me all of my expenses. Once this call is complete I they tell me well your payments are going to go up. I tell them every year I ca n't pay this amount. They tell me that I took the loan out so I have no other Choice.I told them when I took the loans out I was under the impression that I could consolidate my loans now I ca n't Private loans do n't qualify. I cry every night because it 's a nightmare. They want provide me the paper work that I am signing up. I give them dates o take the payment out and its never the same.
6161,"RE : 15 U.S. Code 1681g - Disclosures to consumers I am writing this complaint to exercise my right to request verifiable proof of the negative events you have listed within my credit file. The 15 U.S. Code 1681g - Disclosures to consumers requires CRA 's to disclose the sources of information regarding the negative events that are being reported by your agency upon request by the consumer. 
Currently NAVIENT is reporting XXXX charged off Signature Loans that were originally serviced by XXXX XXXX. I recently learned that XXXX loans are being reported for a school that I NEVER ATTENDED and from research discovered that does not exist. 

I have never attended any XXXX! 

School XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX Lender NAVIENT CREDIT FINANCE CORP Disbursement Date XX/XX/2006 Original Principal {$3000.00} School XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX Lender NAVIENT CREDIT XXXX XXXX Disbursement Date XX/XX/2006 Original Principal {$7000.00}"
1955,"Navient handles my student loans. Looking over my student loans - I have a fixed payment loan over 30 years at a 6 % rate. The payment allocation varies wildly. On one instance, a payment made on XXXX/XXXX/2015, 100 % of the payment was allocated towards interest. My original amount of the loan was XXXX after consolidation. The terms were set for 30 year repayment with the monthly payment being XXXX. I do n't pay extra at any time, I 've saved a pdf copy of my loan repayment history and the allocation. I can not find the terms of my loan on the website. While mortgages and student loans are different, at a fixed interest rate, ultimately, the amount paid should be the same - so I looked at the amortization calculators and entered my loan information - it estimates monthly payment at about {$130.00}. I 'm really just completely confused and never thought to look until seeing the news about Navient. So, my question is, if I 'm paying about XXXX extra dollars a month - which would be approx {$10000.00} over the life of the loan - am I missing something or is this completely incorrect?"
8189,"I obtained a student loan through XXXX XXXX for my XXXX XXXX expense in XXXX. The loan was taken over by Navient student loans in XXXX or XXXX. 
Recently there was a balance of {$50.00} due. Navient Student loans has harassed my phone by calling me Everyday from Sunday-Saturday including holidays from XXXX, every 2 hours or about 6 times a day or 42 times a week and 168 a month nonstop. Navient also call and when voicemail comes on to record the message, they do not leave a message. So, they have called so much as to leave my voicemail full with empty responses and block my ability to receive messages from other persons. 
This is harassment and I am reporting them so this type of practice will stop starting with me. 
These type of phone calls interrupt the general use of my phone, harass me and interrupt my phone use. Navient has other ways of contacting me, they have my addresss and email and have contacted me by email and even went as far as to sent letters to my old address that I have not lived at in 20 years. Currenlty my relative is XXXX in the hospital and my phone needs to be freed up for this and other purposes."
3249,"I had forberance granted to my student loans retroactive to XXXX 2014 but have late payments reported to the credit bureaus for XXXX and XXXX of 2014 on all XXXX loans for a total of XXXX reported late payments that should have been corrected by the retroactive forberance. 
Fed Loan Servicing has refused to correct this."
3600,"I pay $ XXXX monthly to Navient. Very frequently over the past XXXX years they add a late fee bringing my payment to about {$1800.00}, but the payment was not late. It was paid within the grace period between the XXXX and XX/XX/XXXX of any month. When I ask why is there a late fee since I made the payment within the grace period they say there were late fees assessed going back years. Another tactic they use is telling me the payment including the late fee, the portion that would normally pay the late fee is directed at the old balance and the late fee is not paid but carried over again. I have on numerous occasions over the years asking. TODAY, what is my balance in late fees and when I py that amount, they once again apply it to the balance and not the late fee. On XX/XX/2016, within the grace period, I asked them specifically to apply a separate payment to all outstanding fees and was told the amount is {$250.00} which I paid and thought all late fees were paid through XX/XX/XXXX. In XX/XX/XXXX the correct amount was charged, {$1700.00} due XX/XX/XXXX and I paid that even earlier in on XX/XX/XXXX. The next payment due for XX/XX/XXXX once again includes a late fee and the amount due in XX/XX/XXXX is {$1800.00}, an extra {$150.00}. When I asked why is it more, they said I had unpaid late fees. This practice is outrageous and borders on extortion whereby Navient is charging hundreds of dollars in late fees with hundreds of thousands and perhaps XXXX of customers and getting away with it as a late fee charge, then when paid what they say includes a late fee, only to find it was applied to the balance. Now I have another complaint : Whenever I call Navient or even the direct line to Sallie Mae in XXXX, PA, it is all ways routed to the XXXX. ALL WAYS. XXXX I ask to speak with someone in the XXXX, they tell me there is no one available in the XXXX, ever. All calls go to the XXXX. This is also outrageous and they are getting away with breaking the law. Finally, as I put XXXX kids through XXXX, XXXX and XXXX XXXX and a loan in the area of about {$150000.00}, MY XXXX PAYMENT, ON LINE AND IN MAIL WAS ALL WAYS FOR XXXX payment. However, all most 6 years ago when I missed some payments, XXXX XXXX reports to the credit reporting agencies, not XXXX payment was missed, but XXXX payments were missed. For the past 6 years the credit reporting agencies have been reporting me as someone that has missed XXXX payments for the past 6 years. Any creditor who sees this will immediately have a much more negative opinion of my credit worthiness compared to some one who has missed only XXXX payment. Please explain how this is fair to me or anyone else. For XXXX and XXXX years I have been paying monthly around {$1700.00} x 66 months = {$110000.00} and the credit reporting agencies tell the world and any creditors I am NOT credit worthy while they make XXXX % off my loan. 
Is n't XXXX great!! They have never chased me for money, make outrageous interest on educational loans and tell everyone my credit sucks. There sould be a class action law suit filed against these loan sharks. No wonder no young person in the XXXX can repay any educational loan. After telling the world I am not credit worthy for XXXX years, by nagic my credit score will jump dramatically because I pay XXXX mortgages, many loans and approach {$25000.00} monthly in payments but XXXX XXXX and Navient say I am not credit worthy. Do you think if I call the XXXX Police they will help me with these thieves????"
1753,Navient is reporting my student loans XXXX/XXXX/120 days late when they were deferred or forbearance. Tried disputing but it did n't help.
2442,"I 've attended and graduated from XXXX in XXXX, with what was suppose to be an accredited XXXX degree in XXXX. Only to my surprise I found out that my degree program was not accredited until XXXX, 18 months after graduation. ( A total misrepresentation ), The disbursement to XXXX for me to attend was {$18000.00} with payments to begin on XXXX ; I 've been making payments every month and on time since XXXX ' and my balance is still {$13000.00} today with Navient. I 've paid over {$34000.00} out of my pockets over the years, working various entry level jobs that was paying no more that {$9.00} - {$11.00} usd Hr. I was told and promised on may of occasions to not worry about paying my student loans because I would be making enough to pay back and maintain my livelihood ; Which was not true, because its been a struggle ever since I enrolled many years later.When will the repayment END.It felt wrong then and I feel wronged today, only because there is nothing I can do about it.I hope CFPB can reach a settlement very soon, so that I can move on with my life, and try to forget the many years of torment and threats of repaying an over priced student loan for a non-accredited XXXX degree program from the then XXXX SCAM!! featuring Navient and XXXX ponzi sceme."
6792,I am XXXX and Sallie Mae knew this and in a matter of XXXX8 months moved my loans to collections and have been harassing my co-signer daily- All my other loan providers are on board with me.
9549,They contacted me at my place of work which is highly unethical and against the FDCPA in NJ. The name of the company contacted was Transworld System Inc.
2463,"I had loans that went into repayment at XXXX different times. When the XXXX loan went into repayment, the monthly payment was way more than I could afford. I wanted to apply for the income based repayment plan. The representative from Navient said that she would put my loans on forbearance for 2 months until the results came back from the income based repayment plan. She did n't help me at all and my loans were in forbearance for a year!"
9280,"In XXXX I made payment arrangements with Allied Interstate for some of my student loans that went into default ... the only reason I was in default on these loans was becuase XXXX made an error on my payment arrangement with them and was/is only applying my monthly payments I automatically make to them to half of my loans ( unknown to me and even XXXX does nto know why that happened and they are the ones that set the payment up ). 
Anyway I have been making payments by automatic deduction to my debit card ( because I was told by Allied Interstate they can not do ACH debits for payments just debit cards which I do not believe is correctnd seems a bit shady/illegal ). the payments are made every 2 weeks and have been taken since XXXX 2015 but I still continue to receive calls daily, sometimes several times a day and letters threatening to garnish my wages or take further legal action if I do n't make payment arrangements. When I called them to tell them I am making payments and to stop the letters and calls I was told that they would stop but they have not. In XXXX I was changing jobs and called to have them change the payment dates as my pay schedule was changing and I explained that my new payroll would not reflect dedcutions for insurance, union dues, etc for at least 60 days but that I would provide copies of my new paystubs and new income amount at that time. I was assured this was acceptable but still keep getting calls and today received another voice mail threatening this time not only threatening to garnish my wages but to cancel my payment arrangements if I did not send in the payroll information. I left them a voicemail in return explaining again that I had arranged to send in my new payroll information at the end of XXXX as agreed and that I was tired of being harrassed and ifit did not stop I would contact an attorney as I am tired of it ( this was all said politely ). In the voice mail I explained I was at work and was unable to talk and yet they called back again. This has been going on for months and I feel is harrassment. This company has had previous legal issues with their collection methods from my research and I want them held accountable."
1746,The payment optionms is to expensive when asking for deferrment.
3921,"I anticipated bill problems a number of years ago due to upcoming surgeries. It was suggested I "" default '' on payments and seek forbearance after the surgeries/rehab. I did. I was under the impression it would not negatively affect my credit scores. It did affect my credit history negatively! ( XX/XX/XXXX and XX/XX/XXXX an the next year XX/XX/XXXX-XX/XX/XXXX ). 
I attended the University XXXX."
1462,My Son barrowed XXXX for XXXX school in XX/XX/2005. He was making his payments on his loan until they split the loan XXXX times. Now XXXX portion of the loan is up to XXXX He is no longer able to make the payments on this loan due to him XXXX over this. The harassment and hounding from these lenders is unthinkable. We now have to live our lives without him in it due to his student loans. These people should be held responsible in some way.
8052,I borrowed loans from sallie Mae to attend school at XXXX XXXX University with out knowing that each seperate loan would be due for repayment at the same time. I thought it would be a consolidated loan that would be in XXXX manageable payment each month.
2075,"I went to school through XXXX university with them saying what great opprotunities I would have to use my degree in XXXX. Once I graduated and realized I could not use my degree in my field through there school I tried to go back to school for a different degree but most of my credits would not transfer to a different school. After I was out of school my ones have went through XXXX XXXX and now Navient and I am currently on the income based repayment loan for the past year. However my loans for school that I can not use my degree is growing nterest and I will not be able to pay them with this option the offer with all the interest they add on. My loans went into forbidden e when it switch over frthe m XXXX to navient and I was not contact. I have several student loans from navient fed loan and dept of ed on my credit report and is hurting my credit and all seperate XXXX total loans and therefor can not even get a home for my family due to even when I dispute these they come back mine. While I was a n school they never told me how many loans I would need to take out or the interest I would have to pay and how it would ruin my chances of providing for my family using there school to get my degree because nobody will hire so, done for the XXXX in there school. I haven been given a run around trying to get my transcripts and contacting the school which is not listed in your down list below so I click the closest campus even though I did not go to a campus I attended XXXX online"
1444,I borrow through Navient and I 'm on income driven repayment. Every year they have failed to tell me when I need to renew and I am surprised by a bill that 's roughly XXXX my usual monthly payment.
53,"I submitted my IBR application online before my application deadline. I was prompted to print out and send in the form and income verification. I contacted FedLoan to ask where to send the application/verification, but I never received a response. I followed up by calling their customer service. The representative told me that my application had been received and that I only needed to upload my income verification. I uploaded the verification and later received a response that my application for IBR was denied because the form was expired ( despite it having an expiration date of XX/XX/XXXX ). Upon contacting customer service again to ask about the denial, I was told that my application could not be submitted online ( despite the first customer rep telling me that my application was received and that I only needed to upload my income verification ). I immediately uploaded a paper application and verification. Unfortunately, they processed my application after the most current billing cycle ( XX/XX/XXXX ), leaving me on the hook for a student loan payment XX/XX/XXXX that was 3 times my normal payment. The IBR application only applies to the XX/XX/XXXX bill and forward. I contacted customer service again, and they told me there was nothing they could do about XXXX 's payment. They blamed me for not uploading my paper application until after XXXX 's bill was generated. I explained to them that the only reason the paper application was not uploaded originally is because 1 ) they never replied to my message asking where to send the application and ; 2 ) the first customer service rep I spoke to told me that they had received my application, indicating that there was no need to upload it, only that I needed to upload the income verification. Their solution was to put my account in administrative forbearance for XX/XX/XXXX. I agreed, as they told me there were no other options. However, that means that more interest is accumulating while the loan is in forbearance. I am also seeking PSLF, putting my qualifying payments one month behind. I can not help but think that the process is deliberately confusing and that their reps are encouraged to make it even more so, so that the company makes extra interest on the loan while it is in forbearance."
4793,have private student loan through american education services and XXXX. have been paying on this for 10 years and only {$300.00} has been applied to principle. filed this complaint earlier and have not gotten any response yet. they are harrassing my sister who co-signed loan and threatening to sue her. i dont hear anything from them. have asked repeatedly for copies of payments and how they were applied. i am only able to get from 2009 to now on payments from their website ...
3147,"On Wednesday, XXXX/XXXX/16, I received a call from, XXXX XXXX, a representative of Performant Technologies , Inc . The call was in regards to a past due balance on my student loan. I believe that the representative infringed upon my privacy and confidentiality rights and also violated the FDCPA. Before identifying who I was, she disclosed the amount of my past due balance and attempted to resolve my negative balance. She simply asked for me by name and went into details about my account. After discussing my account in detail, she asked me to verify my address, which I believe was her attempt at verifying my identity ; however, this does not adequately verify that she has the correct party. She also never disclosed that she was a debt collector when she was directly asked if she was. She used deceptive collection practices to coerce me into resolving my overdue balance. This phone call was full of FDCPA violations. I finally agreed to a forbearance and I 'm not sure if she even processed the forbearance for me."
9589,After reviewing all of my student loans online I realized that I never opened a private student loan with Sallie Mae. All of my student loans are federal and have been consolidated. I only have private student loans with another bank and my dad was the cosigner but never through Sallie Mae. I arranged payments for this account but after reviewing everything this is not my account. I feel I do not owe this bank because I never took out a private loan from them only federal. No payments have been made by me because I dispute the account but the collection agency continues to charge my bank account. I am going to file a complaint with my bank if the payment does not stop. I got confused because I have so many student loans but with Sallie Mae I researched that all of the loans I applied for should be federal never private and are all consolidated at this time.
787,I have student loans from my time at XXXX XXXX that I have been unable to afford the current monthly payments due to being unable to find employment that pays enough. My student loans are through Navient and I had requested several times over the phone to get enrolled in income based repayment and was told that my income was too high to qualify for those programs and they refused to even let me apply for them and told me the only thing I could do was put my loan into forbearance. After XXXX XXXX was shut down by the federal government due to fraud I asked to apply for the loan forgiveness program that was setup for XXXX XXXX students and was told that my loan would not qualify for that program and again they refused to even let me apply for the program and still continued to insist that I also still did not qualify for income based repayment. As a result my student loans have been listed in repeatedly in forbearance for the past 6 years due to being consistently unable to afford the monthly payments.
435,"I went to XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX in XXXX, CA. My original loan amount was approximately {$55000.00} and now I owe over {$100000.00}. For years I have requested my payment be lowered to a price that I can afford, but instead they will only defer or forebear it adding more interest and penalties. They are unwilling to work any different solution. I am now at a point where I will just die with it and they wo n't be able to get any money. I could never repay that amount they are asking and it will only continue to grow"
