,description_en
7529,"Census of Agriculture, crop residue baled in the year prior to the census"
2732,The Public Transit Fund delivered investments of $400 million in public transit infrastructure in large cities and small communities. This funding contributed to a cleaner environment by reducing greenhouse gas emissions and decreasing traffic congestion. Funding was allocated to provinces and territories on a per capita basis. (2005-2006)
2118,"Environment Canada (EC) identified the need to establish background soil data, specific to Atlantic Canada that could be used during the assessment of federal contaminated sites in the Atlantic region. This data can be used to estimate region-specific background soil concentrations, particularly for metals, in areas where naturally occurring concentrations exceed the soil quality guidelines established by the Canadian Council of Ministers of the Environment (CCME). Other jurisdictions, such as British Columbia, Ontario and Quebec have existing soils databases and EC determined that a similar database for the Atlantic region would be useful.  The background soils database allows for the screening of site data to determine if it is within the typical background range."
7506,Frozen vegetables in storages and factories
1156,These reports presents an annual comprehensive and detailed account of Canadian International Assistance.
10655,location of DG facilities in Edmonton region. They represent the locations of DG truck trip-ends where DG are loaded/unloaded for storage or further handling. Also included with the facilities are businesses who utilize or sell DG.
3476,"The park correlates pitcher plant morpology with availability of atmospheric nitrogen, as the latter may affect pitcher-plant development."
4765,"Survey of innovation and business strategy, products directly competing with highest selling good or service in the enterprise's main market, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and enterprise size, all surveyed industries"
2604,"The datasets provide results from the radionuclide specific analysis performed on drinking water samples collected on a monthly basis from Elliot Lake, Port Hope and Regina.  The monthly samples are tested for Uranium-24/235/238.  They are then composited and analyzed every quarter for radium-226 and radium-228 analysis. "
5577,"Central government operations: budgetary balance, non-budgetary transactions, and financial source/requirement"
1603,"In 1994 the license stub program was implemented to replace the collection of angling data by DFO Guardians. The recreational salmon licenses distributed and sold by the provincial department of Forest Resources and Agrifoods, Wildlife Division, includes an angler activity report card, and a copy of the license application to be sent to DFO, Salmonid Section. This information is contained in two SAS databases 1) The Atlantic salmon recreational license application database contains information such as license number, name, mailing address, telephone number, MCP number and date of license purchase and 2) the angler activity report card database contains license number, when and where and how long the person fished and any information on catch (retained and released). The data can be accessed and analysed using SAS programs. Purpose: Data are used, in conjunction with biological characteristics data and fishway and counting fence data, for stock assessment. Purposes, to determine status of stocks and provision of scientific advice to resource managers; used by economists, sociologists, planners in the tourism industry, the general angling public, among others."
6972,"Canadian vehicle survey, fuel purchased, by type of vehicle and type of fuel"
1087,The indicator represents the median days from the date of first release to the start date of the first community-based Nationally Recognized Correctional Program (NRCP) assignment. 
8420,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
2648,"The Canadian Importers Database (CID) provides summary reports and lists of companies importing goods into Canada. Users importing data in Excel using the default settings need to be aware that the HS6 and HS10 codes will, by default, be interpreted as a number and will lose the leading zero were applicable. "
8319,Provides a statistical overview of various geographic areas based on a number of detailed variables.
6268,Farm product price index (FPPI)
6018,National balance sheet
3085,"The Canadian Geographical Names Data Base (CGNDB) is the authoritative national database of Canada's geographical names. The purpose of the CGNDB is to store place names and their attributes that have been approved by the Geographical Names Board of Canada (GNBC), the national coordinating body responsible for standards and policies on place names. The CGNDB is maintained by Natural Resources Canada, through the Canada Centre for Mapping and Earth Observation. The geographic extent of the CGNDB is the Canadian landmass and water bodies; the temporal extent is from 1897 to present. This dataset is extracted from the CGNDB on a weekly basis, and consists of current officially approved names, feature type, coordinates of the feature, decision date, source, and other attributes. The output file formats for this product are:  text (CSV), Shape (SHP), Geography Markup Language (GML), and Keyhole Markup Language (KML)."
5371,"Provincial and territorial general governments, financial assets and liabilities, by province and territory"
2585,A series of health-related data sets from various quantitative public opinion research studies. 
8797,"Physical activity level, changes between 1994/1995 and 2010/2011, by age group"
8926,"Consumer Price Index, by province (monthly)"
5162,"The Canadian International Merchandise Trade (CIMT) online database offers detailed trade data using the Harmonized System (HS) classification of goods (based on the 6-digit commodity level). In the CIMT, you can select your own variables (e.g., trading partner, province, state, year, month, or other frequency) to create a customized data report. 

In general, merchandise trade data are revised on an ongoing basis for each month of the current year.The previous year's customs data are revised with the release of the January and February reference months as well as on a quarterly basis. The previous two years of customs based data are revised annually and are released in February with the December reference month."
8036,"Industry price indexes for chemical products, by regions"
9464,"Health behaviour in school-aged children 2002, student response to question: How often do you drink anything alcoholic?"
7903,"Survey of innovation, selected service industries, percentage of full-time employees who were university graduates"
1399,Publications related to Nova Scotia's bloodworm (Glycera dibranchiata).
3263,"A file containing the dry mass, leaf area and average perimeter of the needles for the calculation of the specific leaf mass. Measured needles were obtained from litter boxes collected in 2002 from 3 PERD sites and one ECOLEAP site (Montmorency forest)."
8140,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
5487,"Flows and stocks of fixed non-residential capital, total all industries, by asset, Canada, provinces and territories"
3781,"At the end of each fiscal year, government-wide financial information is published in the Public Accounts. This dataset, based on the Volume 3 of the Public Accounts, provides a detailed listing of the payments (i.e. payments and accrued charges) for professional and special services aggregating to $100,000 or over to one individual or organization. This detail includes the main classification of professional and special services, the name and location of the payee, together with the total amount paid. In cases where organizations have more than one place of business, their Head Office location was used for reporting purposes. In addition, this statement presents, for each main classification of services, the total amount of payments to one individual or organization aggregating to less than $100,000 and the total number of payees (for fiscal Year 2009-2010 and later). This dataset is from the Public Accounts of Canada and is not the official record of information. The official version of record can be found on the Receiver General website for the most recent fiscal year and the Library and Archives website for historical years. "
9752,"Production and shipments of particleboard, oriented strandboard and fibreboard"
7041,"Youth custody and community services (YCCS), releases from correctional services, by length of time served and sex"
3638,Not Available
1761,"This data-set lists mercury levels in muscle tissue (fillet) from several freshwater and anadromous fish species collected in Labrador during the summer of 1977 and 1978. Samples were taken from 88 different locations throughout Labrador with particular emphasis on the Smallwood Reservoir. Various meristic data were also examined (i.e. length, weight, sex, and age determination from otoliths). Purpose: For those interested in contaminant research."
9449,"Distribution of farms, by revenue class, farm type and net operating income group, incorporated and unincorporated sectors, Canada"
8510,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
5006,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
651,"Visitor Visas (V-1 Counterfoil Only) Issued Overseas, in persons."
5369,"Asthma, by sex, provinces and territories"
5745,"Recruitment pertaining to the adoption of advanced technologies between 2012 and 2014, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and enterprise size"
9748,"Number of non-resident travellers entering Canada, by country of residence (excluding the United States)"
176,"In 2013, the Earth Observation Team of the Science and Technology Branch (STB) at Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada (AAFC) repeated the process of generating annual crop inventory digital maps using satellite imagery to for all of Canada, in support of a national crop inventory.  A Decision Tree (DT) based methodology was applied using optical (Landsat-8) and radar (RADARSAT-2) based satellite images, and having a final spatial resolution of 30m. In conjunction with satellite acquisitions, ground-truth information was provided by provincial crop insurance companies and point observations from the BC Ministry of Agriculture and our regional AAFC colleagues."
9429,"Live births, by place of residence of mother and place of occurrence, Canada, provinces, territories and outside Canada"
190,"The “Biomass Agriculture Inventory 1-in-20 Probability” dataset is a standalone summary table that contains the estimated 1-in-20 year low for agricultural residue yield and crop production for each Biomass Report Framework. It provides the fifth percentile values for the years 1985-2010.It includes straw or stover yield information for barley, wheat, flax, oats and corn, and crop production information for barley, wheat, flax, oats, corn, canola and soybean.Residue yields were derived from crop-to-residue ratios and climactic data. Crop production area is the area reported as being in agricultural production by Statistics Canada.This dataset also includes information about the type of tillage used in the area, demand for straw used for cattle bedding and feed, and the amount of residue that should remain on the field to prevent soil erosion, which is determined by the type of tillage used."
3822,Notices of complaints and investigations received by Public Services and Procurement Canada from the Information Commissioner of Canada under the Privacy Act
499,"Chemical hazards may occur in foods either from their deliberate use in food production or by accidental contamination from the environment, during processing, or due to the presence of natural toxins. The Canadian Food Inspection Agency's (CFIA) tests foods for pesticides to detect food safety risks and ensure that the food supply meets Canadian standards.

The CFIA tested 3188 samples from a variety of imported and domestic food products for residues of the herbicide, Glyphosate. This was done to see what levels of residues were in these products and to verify that the levels of residues found meet Canadian guidelines. The results obtained from the testing were compared to the limits set by Health Canada.

The results of the survey showed that 70.3% of samples tested did not contain detectable residues of Glyphosate. The overall sample compliance rate to Canadian standards for Glyphosate was found to be 98.7%. None of the samples of fruits and vegetables or children's food products were found to contain residue levels which exceeded limits. Non-compliance data were evaluated by Health Canada and no human health concerns were identified. The CFIA will continue to monitor for the presence of this commonly used herbicide to ensure the safety of the Canadian food supply.

"
779,CIHR Grant and Award Details for the year 2008-09
4458,"Crude birth rate, age-specific and total fertility rates (live births), Canada, provinces and territories"
528,Describes the end-use quality of western Canadian malting barley surveyed from the annual harvest on the Prairies.
3547,"""FluWatch is Canada's national surveillance system that monitors the spread of flu and flu-like illnesses on an on-going basis. The FluWatch program consists of a network of labs, hospitals, doctor's offices and provincial and territorial ministries of health. Program objectives include to: • Detect flu outbreaks across the country as early as possible • Provide timely up-to-date information on flu activity in Canada and abroad to health professionals [and interested Canadians] • Monitor circulating strains of the flu virus (like H1N1) and assess their sensitivity to antiviral medications, [such as Tamiflu and Relenza]. Antivirals, when used by doctors to treat flu, can help reduce the severity of the illness and the recovery time for a patient • Provide information that the World Health Organization can use to make its recommendations on the best vaccine to use for seasonal flu shots."" "
5833,"Key driver in using or developing biotechnologies, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and enterprise size"
10404,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
8508,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
9908,"Gini coefficients of adjusted market, total and after-tax income, Canada and provinces"
9314,"Two-week disability days, by age group and sex, household population aged 12 years and over, territories"
6930,"Hogs and pigs statistics, inventory number by class and quarter, United States and Canada"
898,"This table outlines rates used by the Canada Revenue Agency to calculate the maximum amount a taxpayer can deduct for registered retirement savings plan (RRSP) and group RRSP contributions, and the yearly employer contribution limits applicable to pooled registered pension plans (PRPP). "
3313,Citation information for peer reviewed scientific and technical articles published in 2015 and authored or co-authored by National Research Council scientists and researchers.
9198,"Births, by economic regions and sex, 2001 Census boundaries"
9555,"Functional health status, by age group and sex, household population aged 12 years and over, Canadian Community Health Survey (CCHS 2.1 and 3.1), Canada, provinces and territories"
6676,"Survey of innovation, selected service industries, novelty of new or significantly improved products and/or processes"
8948,"Non-residential building construction investment, by census metropolitan area (quarterly)"
9066,"Canadian Internet use survey, Internet use, by location of access, Canada, provinces and selected census metropolitan areas (CMAs)"
6939,"Employment Insurance Program (E.I.), beneficiaries receiving regular benefits without reported earnings by province and age group"
5428,"Consumer Price Index, transportation, by province (monthly)"
1817,Logbook data from commercial sea cucumber vessels in the Newfoundland region. Purpose: Resource assessment of commercial sea cucumber populations and yearly fishery performance.
8919,"Average total income of the population 15 years and over by highest certificate, diploma or degree, by province and territory (2006 Census)"
9287,"Self-reported unmet health care needs, by type of service, household population aged 15 and over, Canada and provinces"
7300,"Area, production and farm value of potatoes"
3585,Allows the creation of job advertisements and supporting features. Applicants can apply for positions.
5964,"Estimates of the number of census families for July 1, Canada, provinces and territories"
5592,Telecommunication services price indexes
159,"The “Agri-Environmental Indicator (AEI) - Soil Cover” dataset provides a calculation of the amount of time each year that the soil of Canadian agricultural lands is covered by a crop, crop residues on its surface or snow."
3002,"Stations containing prime movers, electric generators, and auxiliary equipment for converting mechanical, chemical, and/or fission energy into electric energy with an installed capacity of 100 megawatts or more. Mapping Resources implemented as part of the North American Cooperation on Energy Information (NACEI) between the Department of Energy of the United States of America, the Department of Natural Resources of Canada, and the Ministry of Energy of the United Mexican States. The participating Agencies and Institutions shall not be held liable for improper or incorrect use of the data described and/or contained herein. These data and related graphics, if available, are not legal documents and are not intended to be used as such. The information contained in these data is dynamic and may change over time and may differ from other official information. The Agencies and Institutions participants give no warranty, expressed or implied, as to the accuracy, reliability, or completeness of these data.
"
7585,"Canadian Community Health Survey (CCHS 1.1 and 2.1) immigrant profile, by sex, Canada, provinces and territories"
5058,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
4123,Established sulphur reserves
124,"Net Farm Income measures the returns to operators of agricultural businesses from the production and marketing of agricultural commodities. Three measures of net farm income at the provincial and national levels - net cash income, realized net income and total net income - are based on integration of production, value and inventories of farm production with expenses and depreciation. "
10285,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
7274,"Leisure-time physical activity, by age group and sex, household population aged 12 and over, Canada, provinces, territories, health regions (June 2003 boundaries) and peer groups"
920,The Tax-Free Savings Account (TFSA) statistics tables present data based on all of the individual records and summary returns sent by financial institutions (issuers) to the CRA for the 2013 tax year. The reports contain three tables. The data in the tables are taken from the tax year which is typically published two years after the tax year ends. 
9226,"Labour force survey estimates (LFS), wages of employees by type of work, National Occupational Classification for Statistics (NOC-S), sex and age group, unadjusted for seasonality"
10103,"Language Highlight Tables, Population by language spoken most often and regularly at home, census subdivisions with 5,000+ population, 2011 census - English version. Provides information highlights by topic via key indicators for various levels of geography."
1912,Green sea urchin catch and biological data (sampled weight and test width) collected by the dockside and at-sea monitoring program of commercial catches in the Estuary and Gulf of St. Lawrence since 1995.
974,An annual publication released on CSA website with the aggregate results of the annual data collection sent out to all Canadian organizations (academic and businesses) involved in the space sector.  
1743,"Aanderaa and Inter Oceans S4 moored current meter (RCM-7, RCM-12, S-4, RDI Sentinel ADCP) data from Newfoundland region . The data consists of U,V,W current velocity components, water temperature, salinity and pressure . As well as station location and deployment information. Purpose: Ocean climate monitoring."
10242,"The Road Network File is a digital representation of Canada's road network, containing information such as street names, types, directions and address ranges. "
9477,"Trusteed pension funds, revenues and expenditures by sector, type of plan and contributory status"
4584,"Survey of innovation and business strategy, employee involvement in decision-making process on task allocation, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and enterprise size, all surveyed industries"
7426,Value of established crude oil reserves
2506,"Database containing all labour market news (hiring, layoff, other event) compiled on a weekly basis and published on Job Bank by the Labour Market and Socio-economic Information Directorate in Ontario Region."
1835,Ring counts generated by reading statoliths. This dataset has links to another dataset. Purpose: Squid population dynamics.
9328,"Labour force survey estimates (LFS), multiple jobholders by National Occupational Classification (NOC), sex and age group"
5671,"Use of quality management practices, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and enterprise size"
3020,"Email requests received from the public, responses and contact person. "
2411,"The Canada Student Loans Program (CSLP) conducts an annual survey to track experience and satisfaction with CSLP service delivery among clients who received service in the six months prior to the survey.
The survey will also fulfill some of the commitments of the CSLP’s Results-based Management Accountability Framework (RMAF).
The research design employed an adapted version of the Common Measurements Tool (CMT) recommended by the Treasury Board Secretariat and replicated, with a few adjustments, the questionnaire used last year (http://www.iccs-isac.org/eng/cmt-about.htm). This year’s survey results were compared, where possible, with those of the 2007 survey."
1595,"Data set contains information on the commercial landings of Atlantic salmon from the Nain fishing region of north Labrador. Data include: name of fisherperson, licence number, area and date fish were caught, weight of fish landed, and sometimes the number of fish caught are also recorded on the files. Data were coded by DFO from commercial purchase slip records issued by the fish plant. Purpose: Information on commercial landings of Atlantic salmon are used directly in assessing the status of stocks and complemented broader geographic information on salmon landings from various Salmon Fishing Areas (SFAs) in Newfoundland and Labrador."
5200,"This table provides statistical information about people in Canada by their demographic, social and economic characteristics as well as provide information about the housing units in which they live."
6460,"Chartered banks, assets excluding investment dealer subsidiaries, average of Wednesdays"
1261,"Polygons denoting concentrations of sea pens, small and large gorgonian corals and sponges on the east coast of Canada have been identified through spatial analysis of research vessel survey by-catch data following an approach used by the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Organization (NAFO) in the Regulatory Area (NRA) on Flemish Cap and southeast Grand Banks. Kernel density analysis was used to identify high concentrations and the area occupied by successive catch weight thresholds was used to identify aggregations. These analyses were performed for each of the five biogeographic zones of eastern Canada. The largest sea pen fields were found in the Laurentian Channel as it cuts through the Gulf of St. Lawrence, while large gorgonian coral forests were found in the Eastern Arctic and on the northern Labrador continental slope. Large ball-shaped Geodia spp. sponges were located along the continental slopes north of the Grand Banks, while on the Scotian Shelf a unique population of the large barrel-shaped sponge Vazella pourtalesi was identified. The latitude and longitude marking the positions of all tows which form these and other dense aggregations are provided along with the positions of all tows which captured black coral, a non-aggregating taxon which is long-lived and vulnerable to fishing pressures.  These polygons identify sponge grounds from the broader distribution of sponges in the region as sampled by Cosmos gear in the Eastern Arctic biogeographic zone. A 40 kg minimum threshold for the sponge catch was identified as the weight that separated the sponge ground habitat from the broader distribution of sponges with these research vessel tow data and gear type."
9608,"Survey of innovation, logging and manufacturing industries, percentage of plants with research and development services that were supplied from different locations"
5694,"Bank of Canada, assets and liabilities, at month-end"
7552,"Canadian passenger bus and urban transit industries, equipment operated, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and type of vehicle"
9411,"Retail trade, total sales and e-commerce sales, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
2938,"This data set consists of colour shaded relief images created from digital multibeam bathymetry data collected by the Geological Survey of Canada (Atlantic). Multibeam bathymetry surveys use sonar to map the seafloor. Sound is transmitted toward the seabed in beams formed using an array of piezoelectric transducers and as the vessel moves through the water, the acoustic signals or ""pings"" bounce back off the seabed returning up to the water surface where they are detected by the transducer and recorded on board. Measurement of acoustic velocity variations in the water column permit conversion of  ""ping"" return time to water depth. Compilation and processing of these soundings within a Geographic Information System (GIS) yields a 3-dimensional digital elevation model (DEM) of the seafloor. The individual surveys cover areas of particular interest to the marine geoscientists at the Geological Survey of Canada (Atlantic)."
598,"Qualified people who have been placed into the Express Entry pool of candidates.

Please note that in these datasets, the figures have been suppressed or rounded to prevent the identification of individuals when the datasets are compiled and compared with other publicly available statistics. Values between 0 and 5 are shown as “--“ and all other values are rounded to the nearest multiple of 5. This may result to the sum of the figures not equating to the totals indicated."
5387,Principal heights by range or region
4912,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
9724,"Survey of innovation, logging and manufacturing industries, percentage of plants with full-time employees who had a university degree or college or technical institute diploma"
1460,Fishery-dependent commercial Pink and Spiny Scallop trawl fishery gridded catch and effort information.
1669,"Length, sex, maturity of capelin caught in experimental bags attached, various locations of Diamond IX midwater trawl. Purpose: Describe selectivity/escapement of capelin from Diamond IX trawl."
4528,"Real domestic product, by industry of origin"
8438,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
2305,"This purpose of this project is to study how food webs influence the transfer of contaminants to the top predator, landlocked Arctic char, in the Northern Contaminants Program's (NCP) ""focal ecosystem"" lakes on Cornwallis Island. Previous studies have shown that mercury and perfluorinated chemicals are carried into Arctic lakes during spring melt and are taken up and concentrated through the food web into char. This research examined food web accumulation of mercury, which has both natural and human sources and undergoes complex transformations in lakes, and of perfluorinated chemicals, which are entirely human-made, arrive solely by atmospheric deposition, and are not transformed in the environment. We built on previous research by contrasting how these two persistent contaminants concentrate through lake food webs and examining factors that affect their levels in char and other organisms in High Arctic lakes. The research focused on lakes in the Resolute Bay area (North, Small, Meretta, Resolute, 9 Mile, Char), because the arctic char and the supporting food webs of these lakes hd already been studied."
4199,"Health behaviour in school-aged children 2002, student response to question: How easy is it to talk to the following persons about things that really bother you?"
8691,"This table provides statistical information about people in Canada by their demographic, social and economic characteristics as well as provide information about the housing units in which they live."
4162,"Historical statistics, urban and rural population"
10756,"The TSB is publishing selected fields from its Aviation Safety Information System (ASIS) so that this information can be used by industry and the public in order to advance transportation safety. The aviation data files allows you to view accidents and incidents that have been reported to the TSB since 1 January 2004. The data provided in the aviation data file is described in the accompanying data dictionary. TSB data is collected according to the mandatory occurrence reporting requirements described in the TSB Regulations. On 1 July 2014, the TSB issued new regulations that changed some reporting requirements. Data prior to this date were collected under the reporting requirements described in the TSB Regulations in effect at that time. This aviation data file will normally be generated on the 15th of each month. Basic information about each new occurrence in the previous month is available by the date of publication. Further factual information is added when available. As this data is pulled from a live database that captures the results of ongoing investigations, historical data is subject to change, with the oldest data being the most stable. Further, as many occurrences are not investigated formally, information recorded on some occurrences may not have been verified. The scope of what is published will evolve as the TSB gains more experience in publishing this type of data."
7877,Number of calves born
8255,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
8269,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
2456,"Human Resources and Skills Development Canada (HRSDC) and Citizenship and Immigration Canada (CIC) identified a need to further explore the issue of Foreign Credential Recognition (FCR) with the intention of better understanding the needs of newcomers to Canada and of employers, as well as awareness, perceptions and opinions among the general population. Through a better understanding of the issues at hand the Government of Canada hopes to better enable newcomers, employers, and other stakeholders of interest to work collaboratively to fill shortages in skilled labour and ensure the strength of the Canadian economy.
The research program consisted of three components: a quantitative telephone survey of the general public, qualitative focus group research with newcomers, and qualitative in-depth interviews with employers."
4673,"Spectator sports, sales and service revenue by type of service"
6707,Work absence statistics of full-time employees by sex and North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)
938,List of television program logs submitted by television undertakings. 
5046,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
8496,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
597,"Qualified people who have been placed into the Express Entry pool of candidates.

Please note that in these datasets, the figures have been suppressed or rounded to prevent the identification of individuals when the datasets are compiled and compared with other publicly available statistics. Values between 0 and 5 are shown as “--“ and all other values are rounded to the nearest multiple of 5. This may result to the sum of the figures not equating to the totals indicated."
6956,"Survey of innovation, selected service industries, percentage of innovative business units involved in cooperative and collaborative arrangements"
3691,"The Department of Public Services and Procurement Canada, in its role as Receiver General for Canada, is responsible for the management and safeguarding of all federal government money. All funds paid to the Government of Canada are held in a central account at the Bank of Canada, known as the Consolidated Revenue Fund (CRF). The Receiver General uses a centralized banking system (Government Banking System or GBS) to record the inflow of funds to the CRF. Using this system, cash balances at the Bank of Canada are reviewed and approved each day by the Receiver General. This dataset entitled “Daily Cash Balances” provides details, extracted from the GBS, of the balance and amounts held at the Bank of Canada. 
Updates will be posted quarterly."
1136,"This dataset contains contact information for government offices that provide consular services to Canadian citizens abroad. The dataset also includes Australian and Swedish offices around the world that, by special agreement, provide consular services to Canadians."
10069,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
9459,"Sales of alcoholic beverages by volume, value and per capita 15 years and over, fiscal years ended March 31"
2848,"This file contains data collected in 1979 during a national drinking survey. These datasets have been converted from their legacy file structures and encoding schemes so they can be used by contemporary computers that are based upon the ASCII character-encoding scheme. Each dataset will require specialized software such as a statistical tool, to interpret and analyze the content in each file. The attached codebook describes the file’s structure and defines the variables contained in each field. Each code book is a compilation of the summary description of the dataset as provided by the creating department.  As such, it is available in English only"
4211,"Survey of innovation, selected service industries, percentage of business units that used programs sponsored by the federal or provincial and/or territorial governments"
4674,"Children's participation in physical activities, in hours per week, by sex, household population aged 6 to 11, Canadian Community Health Survey cycle 2.2, Canada and provinces"
247,"The National Ecological Framework for Canada's ""Land Cover by Ecodistrict” dataset provides land cover information within the ecodistrict framework polygon. It provides landcover codes and their English and French language description as well as information about the percentage of the polygon that the component occupies."
1286,"Surface meteorology, wind stress, skip directional wave spectra, 97 data runs for wind stress. BIO mission 91-055.
PURPOSE: Validation of ocean surface sensors on ER51 satellite. Validation of wave prediction models. Investigate relationship between sea state and winds stress drag coefficient Vs wind speed."
9819,Demand of lubricating oils and greases in natural units
2607,The datasets provide results from the measurement of strontium-90 and cesium-137 in environmental water samples collected near nuclear facilities between 1979 and 2006
3765,"At the end of each fiscal year, financial information is published in the Public Accounts. This dataset provides the full wording of most authorities (budgetary and non‑budgetary) available from previous years, by ministry. "
9984,"Canadian vehicle survey, passenger-kilometres, by type of vehicle and type of fuel"
6262,How often students in selected countries feel lonely
1283,"This database consists of processed SeaWiFS measurements of chlorophyll. SeaWiFS (Sea-viewing Wide Field-of-view Sensor) is the name of the sensor on board the SeaStar polar-orbiting satellite (also called Orbview-2). The SeaWiFS data are obtained from GeoEye (formerly Orbimage, the company which owns the SeaStar) via NASA. There are two SeaWiFS chlorophyll products maintained in the database: SeaWiFS LAC (1 km x 1 km, Local Area Coverage) 1.5 x 1.5 km semi-monthly composites for the North Atlantic from the second half of September 1997 to December 23, 2004. SeaWiFS GAC (4 km x 4 km, Global Area Coverage) 4 km x 4 km weekly composites for the North Atlantic from the second half of September 1997 to the present. For a description of SeaWiFS, see http://oceancolor.gsfc.nasa.gov/SeaWiFS/ This abstract was obtained from the web site identified as the distribution source for the database."
6222,"Census of Agriculture, cattle and calves on census day"
1593,"The dataset includes numbers of salmon observed, by site and River Section for Crabbes River, Middle Barachois Brook, Robinsons River, Fischells Brook, and Flat Bay Brook (Bay St George). The salmon are categorized as small (<63 cm) or large (>63 cm). Sites where salmon are located are described. Dataset are for annual surveys 1996 to 2000. Purpose: Annual status of stocks. Advice on restoration of stocks, and community watershed management."
3320,A listing of all Selection Committees and Evaluation Groups Memberships hosted by NSERC for a specific competition year. The dataset includes the role of members within the committee and the organization of provenance. Selection committees provide quality assessment and funding recommendations on grant and scholarship applications assigned to them by NSERC staff.
6843,"Balance of international payments, financial account"
9229,Value of proven and probable reserves of miscellaneous minerals
7592,"National Household Survey indicator profile, Canada, provinces, territories, health regions (2014 boundaries) and peer groups"
6583,"Production, shipments and stocks of cement"
3404,"The Conditional Release Reviews dataset provides information on the number of reviews conducted by the PBC for a given period. A review contains one or more decisions conducted on the same day for the same offender. Reviews are sorted according to location and review type. Items found in this dataset include, among others, jurisdiction, sentence type, review type, race, gender and offence type."
4894,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
7268,"Census of Agriculture, manure and manure application methods in the year prior to the census"
6832,"Business conditions survey, by economic use groups"
1351,Used to develop a head length to body length correlation. This can be used to find the length frequency of halibut caught.
7084,"Exports, by summary export groups (SEG) and other aggregations, by destination, customs basis not seasonally adjusted"
8052,"Film and video distribution, operating expenses, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
7033,"Homicide survey, number and rates (per 100,000 population) of homicide victims, by census metropolitan area (CMA)"
7722,"Asthma, by age group and sex, household population aged 12 and over, territories"
1352,"The core of the data in this DB is brand re-sightings from a rigorous annual census of Grey Seals on Sable Island (Eastern Scotian Shelf) between late December and early February, and opportunistic sightings in areas where branded seals have temporarily or permanently migrated, including the Gulf of St. Lawrence, Western Scotian Shelf, Bay of Fundy and Gulf of Maine. Harbour Seal brand re-sight data and ecology data from the active research program from the late 80's to early 90's also included. Monitoring Utility & Uniqueness: This unique database includes 40 years of sightings data from permanently marked individuals of a large, long-lived marine mammal. This data allows for monitoring population size, estimating vital rates, and research on foraging ecology and life history theory. Understanding of the predator-prey interactions of this top marine predator is important for ecosystem based management.
PURPOSE: The re-sightings data and other individual life history data are used to monitor population size, estimate vital rates, and support research on foraging ecology and life history of Grey Seals. Study animal information including lengths, weights and other measurements for various projects on life history and foraging ecology."
7942,"Surveying and mapping services, summary statistics"
5638,"Survey of Financial Security (SFS), composition of assets (including Employer Pension Plans valued on a termination basis) and debts held by all family units, Canada and provinces"
8833,Sales of commodities of large retailers
9654,Value per head of livestock at July 1
8479,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
6030,"Canada and Quebec Pension Plans revenue and expenditures, for fiscal year ending March 31"
2578,A series of health-related data sets from various quantitative public opinion research studies. 
3641,Not Available
1599,Scale envelopes c/w data.
5549,Operating statistics of Canadian pipelines
9896,"Livestock, slaughtering in inspected establishments"
1746,Morphometrics data collected from blue hake specimens collected from foreign and domestic commercial fisheries. Purpose: Data is used in research activities conducted into this species.
6624,"Registered Retirement Savings Plan (RRSP) contributions, by contributor characteristics"
7633,"Enterprises indicating that patents, copyrights or trade-marks held by others were business obstacles in the last three years, revenue size groups, selected industries"
2183,The Combined Atmospheric Gases and Particles data sets were collected at regionally representative sites from ground-based monitoring networks in Canada and the USA.  The data are from Canadian federal and provincial networks (past and present) and U.S. historical networks (these data are not available elsewhere) and studies from 1982 to the present. The archive primarily contains measurement data collected by the Air Quality Research Division of Environment and Climate Change Canada and its external collaborators and contributors. Also included is an archive of historical U.S. and Canadian (federal and provincial) air and precipitation data back to the 1970’s.  Refer to the Contributing Networks collection and the Data Holdings (PDF) file for a listing of current and past networks.
4580,"Profits and other investment income, by industry"
7582,"Capital and repair expenditures on construction and machinery and equipment, public and private investment, actual data"
5984,"Components of population growth, Canada, provinces and territories"
3742,"At the end of each fiscal year, the Receiver general of Canada publishes financial information in the Public Accounts. These datasets present a summary of the balances and transactions in deposit and trust accounts, for all other specified purpose accounts as well as a reconciliation between the assets available for benefit payments shown in the CPP's consolidated financial statements and the Account, as well as a summary of the balances and transactions in the Account which result in the deposit with the Receiver General for Canada"
1103,The indicator represents the total number of Preliminary Assessment reports completed on-time per the total number of Preliminary Assessment reports that were due for the reporting period (within 5 working days of sentence commencement date).
8454,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
1163,List of vehicles in use by common services at mission abroad
6805,"Financial ratios of farms, by quartile boundary, incorporated and unincorporated sectors, Canada and provinces"
8464,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
7072,"Television viewing time, by viewer demographic characteristics, signal source and content of programme"
7908,"Itinerant movements, by type of power plant, airports with NAV CANADA flight service stations"
554,Temporary residents who are in Canada on a work permit or study permit in the observed calendar year. Datasets include Temporary Foreign Worker Program (TFWP) and International Mobility Program (IMP) work permit and study permit holders by year in which permit(s) became effective.
1811,Images of scallop biological samples. Images taken during sampling (tows). Stored on site at NWAFC in Elaine Hynick's office. Not all photos are digital. Active plans to scan/archive older photos. New photos are in digital format.  
2071,"Long-lived pollutants continue to be found in Arctic air and water as a result of distant and local sources.  One objective of this project is to establish current concentrations of priority pollutants so future concentrations can be compared.  Marine traffic, mining and oil/gas exploration is expected to increase in the archipelago and could impact levels of contaminants in air and water.  Some of these pollutants include flame retardants, pesticides and chemicals released when burning fuels.  
Some local sources of these chemicals in the Arctic are from diesel burning for electricity (diesel is burned in Nunavut’s 25 hamlets to produce electricity), diesel burning ships, local oil exploration, forest fires and long range transport from southern regions.  As other long-lived pollutants decline due to regulations, chemicals from fuel burning may become a more important pollutant in the arctic environment.
Another important set of chemicals in the arctic are flame retardants, they are receiving increased attention due to their presence in the arctic environment.  Flame retardants are used mainly in furniture, foam, textiles and fire resistant coatings but some are also used in plastics, hydraulic fluids, lacquer/paint, glue and cosmetics.  As some flame retardants are banned, the use of other flame retardants will increase. The goal of this work is to determine how existing and new long-lived pollutants are transported to the arctic, what happens to them once they are there, and how they enter the food web.  We propose to achieve this through air and water sampling in the Canadian Archipelago in collaboration with the ArcticNet program onboard the Canadian Coast Guard Ship Amundsen.  Please see Figure 1 for the ship’s cruise track.  This study will build on air and water investigations conducted by the same team since 1992 but looking at a broader range of chemicals. 
New to the project this year are brominated product compounds (BPCs).  They are naturally occurring but are also degradation products of brominated anthropogenic compounds such as poly brominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs). These compounds are present in arctic biota and the brominated dioxins have toxicological significance. Additionally, these are potential climate change indicators, since the retreat of sea ice, changes in precipitation and river runoff is predicted to change the distribution of these brominated compounds due to changes in primary production, species composition, circulation patterns, formation of the water column structure, load of dissolved organic matter and air-sea exchange. We propose to collect water, air and sediment samples for these compounds since little is known about their presence in the arctic abiotic environment. 

Results of this research, combined with those from earlier studies, will allow us to assess changes in pollutant levels in the Canadian Archipelago over time.  Our monitoring work helps us determine the effectiveness of Canadian and international regulations to reduce emissions of certain long-lived pollutants.  Our work also helps us understand how a changing climate influences how these chemicals move in the environment.  The information we collect on levels of new chemicals in Arctic air and water, including new flame retardants, will be used to determine whether or not they should be banned world-wide."
154,The “Agri-Environmental Indicator (AEI) - Risk of Water Contamination by Nitrogen (IROWC-N)” dataset estimates the level of risk of inorganic nitrogen contaminating surface water on Soil Landscapes of Canada agricultural areas for census years from 1981 to 2011.
10141,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
3700,"The program codes (PROG) which are included in the Program Alignment Architecture (PAA), are used to account for the use of resources to promote overall government program objectives. The format of these PROG is composed of a 5 digit field: 3 alpha (capital letter) and 2 numeric digit
codes."
10676,"The volume of dangerous goods travelling on ferry routes across Canada per month. This excel document also contains data on vessel, vehicles, passengers, and service specifications per route. "
3433,"The Conditional Release Special Conditions dataset provides information on the number of special conditions imposed by the PBC in a given period. The information is sorted according to location and category of decision. Items found in this dataset include, among others, jurisdiction, sentence type, race, gender and offence type."
6173,"Live births and fetal deaths (stillbirths), by type (single or multiple), Canada, provinces and territories"
8338,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
9880,"National balance sheet, quasi-banks"
3901,"Dataset comes from the financial system, SIGMA, where SSC budget management, monitoring and control are performed and where processing of budget adjustments, such as new funding, transfers between Branches, or other adjustments that change reference levels occur.  Also enables ongoing reconciliation of information contained in RLTS with the Treasury Board authorities. "
2892,"Canadian Marketable Natural Gas Production, The Energy Market Assessment, Short-term Canadian Natural Gas Deliverability 2016-2018, provides an estimate of the amount of marketable natural gas by gas grouping and by province from the beginning of 2016 to the end of 2018. The outlook presents three distinct cases, a Higher Price Case, Mid-Range Price Case, and a Lower Price Case, each of which are based on a set of assumptions, which are described in detail at: http://www.neb-one.gc.ca/nrg/sttstc/ntrlgs/rprt/2016-2018ntrlgsdlvrblty/index-eng.html. The dataset also provides monthly historical production by Western Canada gas grouping from the beginning of 1998 to the end of 2015. Annual drilling days and number of wells drilled by gas grouping and well depth are included, as are initial production rates and decline parameters by well vintage by grouping for the period 2000-2018."
9454,"Survey of innovation, logging and manufacturing industries, novelty of new or significantly improved processes"
6359,"Canadian business patterns, location counts, employment size and North American Industry Classification System (NAICS), national industries, by Canada and provinces, Decembre 2011"
578,"Syrian refugees who have arrived in Canada as part of the Government of Canada's commitment to resettle Syrian refugees. Datasets include Syrian refugees who have received settlement services. Please note that in these datasets, the figures have been suppressed or rounded to prevent the identification of individuals when the datasets are compiled and compared with other publicly available statistics. Values between 0 and 5 are shown as “--“ and all other values are rounded to the nearest multiple of 5. This may result to the sum of the figures not equating to the totals indicated."
10762,"The TSB is publishing selected fields from its Pipeline Occurrence Database System (PODS) so that this information can be used by industry and the public in order to advance transportation safety. The pipeline data file allows you to view accidents and incidents that have been reported to the TSB since 1 January 2004. The data provided in the pipeline data file is described in the accompanying data dictionary. TSB data is collected according to the mandatory occurrence reporting requirements described in the TSB Regulations. On 1 July 2014, the TSB issued new regulations that changed some reporting requirements. Data prior to this date were collected under the reporting requirements described in the TSB Regulations in effect at that time. This pipeline data file will normally be generated on the 15th of each month. Basic information about each new occurrence in the previous month is available by the date of publication. Further factual information is added when available. As this data is pulled from a live database that captures the results of ongoing investigations, historical data is subject to change, with the oldest data being the most stable. Further, as many occurrences are not investigated formally, information recorded on some occurrences may not have been verified. The scope of what is published will evolve as the TSB gains more experience in publishing this type of data."
2465,"The purpose of the research is to evaluate recent communications aimed at apprentices and gauge the success of its outreach activities thus far, and to refine efforts where necessary to better reach the target audiences."
6427,"Canadian Internet use survey, electronic commerce, electronic orders by age group and type of good and service"
2458,"The qualitative research was designed to explore: 
• The age at which people expect to retire (fully and partially);
• General expectations of the retirement income system upon retirement;
• Expected reliance on Old Age Security (OAS)/Guaranteed Income Supplement (GIS) and Canada Pension Plan (CPP);
• Sources of retirement income/sources of income that people expect to rely on in retirement;
• Financial/retirement literacy, including knowledge of range of retirement planning options, knowledge of existing programs and benefits and their age of eligility; knowledge of other countries’ public pensions;
• Readiness to work past 65 and choices influencing that decision;
• Awareness of financial pressures as a result of the demographic shift; and
• Views on intergenerational equity and fairness between generations."
7283,"Canadian Internet use survey, Internet use at home, by Internet activity, urban or rural distribution"
9552,"Census of Agriculture, irrigation in the year prior to the census"
9064,"Investment, capital stock and capital services of physical assets, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
7182,Soft drinks production
6166,"Mean age of mother at time of delivery (live births), Canada, provinces and territories"
6738,"Average total income of farm operators by farm type, incorporated and unincorporated sectors"
4751,"Farm input price index, total farm input price index"
1170,PARIS21's Questionnaire on statistics related expenditures.
2820,"This file contains data collected in 1975 relating to aircraft movement statistics in Canada. These datasets have been converted from their legacy file structures and encoding schemes so they can be used by contemporary computers that are based upon the ASCII character-encoding scheme. Each dataset will require specialized software such as a statistical tool, to interpret and analyze the content in each file. The attached codebook describes the file’s structure and defines the variables contained in each field. Each code book is a compilation of the summary description of the dataset as provided by the creating department.  As such, it is available in English only."
9999,"Registered pension plans (RPPs), members and market value of assets, by normal retirement age, sector, type of plan and contributory status"
9258,"Health behaviour in school-aged children 2002, student response to question: How do you feel about school at present?"
7478,"Chartered banks, foreign currency booked in Canada, quarter end, Bank of Canada"
2272,"Long-term freshwater quality monitoring data for over eight sites in the Ottawa River basin for the past 15 years or longer for nutrients, metals, major ions, and other physical-chemical variables are included in this dataset. Monitoring is conducted by Environment and Climate Change Canada (ECCC) as well as through the Canada-Quebec Water Quality Monitoring Agreement and the St. Lawrence Action Plan to assess water quality status and long-term trends, detect emerging issues, establish water quality guidelines and track the effectiveness of remedial measures and regulatory decisions. Data for sites operated by the province are available from Quebec's Sustainable Development, Environment and the Fight against Climate Change Ministry."
7638,Exports and imports of goods and services
10317,"The Road Network File is a digital representation of Canada's road network, containing information such as street names, types, directions and address ranges. "
9326,"Adoption of advanced material handling, supply chain and logistics technologies, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and enterprise size"
6739,"Financial flows, financial government business enterprises"
2641,"The Financial Performance Data website provides financial information to businesses with revenue ranges from $30,000 to $5,000,000.   The dataset is generated from the website and contains the following subsets:

• Total revenue
• Total expenses ($ value)
• Total expenses (%)
• Balance sheet
• Financial ratios
• Profitable/Non profitable businesses
• NAICS descriptor
• Readme – data mapping"
1418,"Biological characteristics information from adult salmon. Database Components: Fish number, month / day, tag number, observed stage, scales stage, length, sex, observed origin, scale origin, age (5 breakdowns.).
PURPOSE: Stock assessment / status reports, research papers."
5669,Industry price indexes for primary metal products and metal fabricating products
1403,"Collecting general biological length and weight estimates from abundance trap counts for elver.
PURPOSE: Stock assessment."
5120,"The Road Network File is a digital representation of Canada's road network, containing information such as street names, types, directions and address ranges. "
6724,"Health behaviour in school-aged children 2002, student response to question: Do you have a long-term disability, illness or medical condition?"
3517,"Parks Canada monitors structural change in the spruce forests of Kluane National Park and Reserve following a spruce bark beetle outbreak that began in 1994. Understanding stand development after this landscape-level disturbance will be critical for assessing the resilience of this forest to a disturbance of unprecedented severity. It is also important for monitoring the impact of the outbreak on wildlife habitat and the effects of beetle salvage logging outside of the park on forest development. Sampling is done every 5 years in 50 randomly located permanent sample plots in white spruce dominated mature forests. Three sub-measures are assessed: 1) Basal area of live and dead spruce, 2) Regeneration density of spruce, and 3) Volume of downed dead wood "
4439,"Railway transport survey, balance sheet, by mainline companies"
10172,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
2007,"Cadet Program is a relevant, credible and proactive youth development organization, offering the program of choice for Canada’s youth, preparing them to become the leaders of tomorrow through a set of fun, challenging, well-organized and safe activities. This dataset contains a list of cadets enrolled in the Canadian Cadet Organizations. The list is partial from 2003 to 2010 and complete from 2010 to 2017. It outlines the duration the cadets were active, where they joined and how far they progressed in the training program."
10536,"The Horizontal Initiative database provides planned and actual financial and non-financial information by horizontal initiatives. Details for each initiative include the lead departments, timing of the initiative, the total funding allocation, a description, the shared outcomes, governance structure, partners and a contact name. Plans, spending and results are also available for each identified reporting period."
9938,Electric utility construction price index (EUCPI)
9110,"Population who needed health information or advice, by time of day, household population aged 15 and over, Canada"
8837,Summary Table. Find data on sentencing of youth cases by type of crime. Canada. STC
9720,"Survey of innovation and business strategy, changes to business activities in Canada in the last three years, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and enterprise size, all surveyed industries"
7349,"Survey of Employment, Payrolls and Hours (SEPH), average weekly hours for employees paid by the hour, by overtime status and detailed North American Industry Classification System (NAICS), unadjusted for seasonality"
272,"Average of the analysis of the difference between precipitation and potential evapotranspiration (P-ETP) during the growing season (Tmoy ≥ 5.5 °C), based on the period between 1974 and 2003. The analysis is based on precipitation and temperature values interpolated every 10 km using the ANUSPLIN method, based on data from the Ministère du Développement durable, de l'Environnement et des Parcs du Québec and from Environment Canada.Evapotranspiration corresponds to the loss of water from the soil and plant cover by evaporation, and the loss of water from plants through transpiration.The potential evapotranspiration index (ETP) is based on the principle that the growth of a crop is optimal when the usable water reserve is sufficient and there is a balance between water absorbed by the roots and water lost through transpiration. The ETP corresponds to the maximum theoretical possible evaporation and transpiration in given climate conditions. The accumulated difference between precipitation and potential evapotranspiration (P-ETP) gives a general indication of the “climatological” water balance and can be used to make qualitative comparisons between regions in terms of irrigation requirements and risks of drought. However, a specific assessment of water needs for a given culture and a specific location requires knowledge of the actual evapotranspiration which, in addition to climatological factors, also takes into account the characteristics of the plant and the soil."
7144,"Enterprises holding or using copyrights, by copyright size group and selected industry group, December 2010"
7285,"Survey of innovation and business strategy, multinational enterprises among competitors for highest selling good or service in main market, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and enterprise size, all surveyed industries"
2902,"Canada is the world’s fifth largest producer of natural gas and accounts for around five per cent of global production. Natural gas production in Canada is predominantly from the Western Canadian Sedimentary Basin in British Columbia, Alberta, and Saskatchewan, although other gas is produced from offshore Nova Scotia and smaller amounts are produced in Ontario, New Brunswick, and Nunavut. While Canadian production of conventional natural gas has been declining, production of Canadian unconventional natural gas has been rising. Development of unconventional resources like tight gas is technologically challenging and companies are increasingly using horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing to create economically viable wells. Canadian natural gas supply currently exceeds domestic consumption. Canada’s natural gas markets are heavily integrated with those of the United States and Canada exports its surplus natural gas to the U.S. while importing smaller amounts from the U.S. into Central Canada in return. While some companies have proposed exporting natural gas to overseas markets by liquefying it (liquefied natural gas or LNG), any projects that are actually built are not likely to be operational until towards the end of the decade. The National Energy Board regulates the export and import of natural gas. Export orders or licenses are required to export natural gas from Canada. Holders of export authorizations report monthly on their export activities to the Board."
5679,"Adult correctional services, average counts of offenders in federal programs"
3032,"The administrative features of the CanVec series includes geopolitical regions (international, territorial and provincial), aboriginal lands, municipal boundaries and populated place names. A wide selection of attributes describe the data. The CanVec multiscale series is available as prepackaged downloadable files and by user-defined extent via a Geospatial data extraction tool."
10187,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
7574,"Mammogram obtained within the previous two years, by age group, women aged 50 to 69 years, Canada, provinces, territories, health regions (January 2000 boundaries) and peer groups"
7828,"Labour force survey estimates (LFS), by immigrant status, country of birth, sex and age group, Canada, 3-month moving average, unadjusted for seasonality"
8847,"Socioeconomic overview of the farm population, number of operators per farm by sources of operator total income and sex"
10523,"Budgetary Expenditures by Standard Object of Expenditure: This table shows the forecast of total expenditures by Standard Object, which includes the types of goods or services to be acquired, or the transfer payments to be made and the revenues to be credited to the vote. "
3380,"The Conditional Release Grant Rate dataset provides information on the number of conditional releases granted/directed/continued/approved/authorized and the number of conditional releases denied/not directed/not approved/not authorized.  Decisions are sorted according to location and final decision. Items found in this dataset include, among others, jurisdiction, decision purpose, decision type, sentence type, review type, race, gender and offence type."
6770,Canadian students' ability to talk to their teachers about the things that bother them
1158,"Imports of dairy products into Canada are subject to controls under Canada’s Export and Import Permits Act (EIPA). In this dataset , will find information on the administration of Canada's import controls on those commodities."
2124,"Monthly total and multi-year ice sea ice area flux between the Canadian Arctic Archipelago and the Arctic Ocean from 1997 to 2013. Data is available at the M'Clure Strait and Queen Elizabeth Islands exchange gates for the months of May to November.  Ref: Howell, S. E. L., T. Wohlleben, M. Dabboor, C. Derksen, A. Komarov, and L. Pizzolato (2013), Recent changes in the exchange of sea ice between the Arctic Ocean and the Canadian Arctic Archipelago, J. Geophys. Res. Oceans, 118, 3595–3607, doi:10.1002/jgrc.20265;  and Howell, S. E. L., C. Derksen, L. Pizzolato, and M. Brady (2015), Multiyear ice replenishment in the Canadian Arctic Archipelago: 1997–2013, J. Geophys. Res. Oceans, 120, 1623–1637, doi:10.1002/2015JC010696."
4031,"Birth-related indicators (low and high birth weight, small and large for gestational age, pre-term births), by sex, three-year average, Canada, provinces, territories, census metropolitan areas and metropolitan influence zones"
8951,Summary table. Find data on diabetes by province and territory by year. Number of persons. STC
5813,"University expenditures, by type of expenditure, Canada and provinces"
3896,A list generated by Canadian General Standards Board for new standard's work in order to be in compliance with the national standards system.
449,Provides details on the inventory of IT equipment.
7899,"Trust companies, statements of estimated assets, liabilities and shareholders' equity"
10367,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
6778,"Student response to question: How much pressure do you feel because of the work you have to do at school, by sex, age group and selected countries"
4036,"Age-specific marriage rates per 1,000 unmarried females, all marriages, Canada"
2878,"The Board monitors and enforces compliance with requirements concerning the safety and protection of employees, the public, and the environment, as they may be affected throughout the life of a project (e.g. during construction, operation and abandonment).  An NEB inspection verifies compliance status of a pipeline, construction project or facility at a single point in time. This dataset includes information about non compliances that have been identified during inspections."
5542,"Summary table. Find data on certificates granted to registered apprentices and trade qualifiers, by major trade group, by year. STC"
2500,List of meetings between lobbyists and EDSC Designated Public Office Holders.
3875,"The object classification is a field of the government-wide coding block that identifies the type of goods or services acquired, the transfer payments made, the source of revenue or the cause of increases or decreases in assets and liabilities. The object information provides: •A method for classifying and coding transactions to permit the reporting of information about the
nature of transactions in the Estimates and in the Public Accounts; •A standard classification of transactions for internal departmental analysis and central management purposes; and •The basis used by Statistics Canada to determine and report more accurately the impact of government revenues and expenditures on the rest of the economy. In addition, the object coding provides a repository of government-wide information, which can be used by central agencies without requiring departments and agencies to respond to numerous individual requests."
1578,"Data set contains information on the commercial Arctic charr landings from the Nain fishing region of north Labrador. Data include: name of fisherperson, licence number, area and date fish were caught, weight of fish landed, and sometimes the number of fish caught are also recorded on the files. Data were coded by DFO from commercial purchase slip records issued by the fish plant. Purpose: Information on commercial landings of Arctic charr are used directly in assessing the status of stocks, and examining the effects of exploitation on the population dynamics of north Labrador charr populations. Data are used along with commercial fish sampling information to compile stock-specific catch-at-age and weight-at-age information."
3664,This dataset shows advertising expenditures in millions of dollars year over year.
2833,"This file contains data collected during a 1977 survey of adults on the consumption of prescribed medications. These datasets have been converted from their legacy file structures and encoding schemes so they can be used by contemporary computers that are based upon the ASCII character-encoding scheme. Each dataset will require specialized software such as a statistical tool, to interpret and analyze the content in each file. The attached codebook describes the file’s structure and defines the variables contained in each field. Each code book is a compilation of the summary description of the dataset as provided by the creating department.  As such, it is available in English only."
3194,Poplar plant tissue bank
5933,"Positions of members of Payments Canada and Bank of Canada operations, Bank of Canada"
10603,The Delegates Conference Registration Application (DCRA Ext) is used by Transport Canada Business Partners to indicate their intention of attending the 2016 Delegates Conference via an on-line registration page.
8100,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
9627,"Deaths, by cause, Chapter III: Diseases of the blood and blood-forming organs and certain disorders involving the immune mechanism (D50 to D89), age group and sex, Canada"
834,"List of the consultation activities taken with aboriginal groups related to various projects, including the date, representative, and a description of the consulation activity"
8883,"Consumer Price Index, food, by province"
4170,Crude oil and equivalent supply and disposition
8078,The Population Ecumene Census Division Cartographic Boundary File contains a generalised population ecumene based on census population density data with at least one ecumene polygon appearing within every census division. This file can be used to produce small-scale thematic maps of statistical data.
8895,"Federal general elections, by electors, ballots cast and voter participation"
5945,"Taxi and limousine service industry, revenues and expenses, by province and territory"
2919,Provides information on the reclassification of occupied positions by department and agencies on a quarterly basis.
8020,"Canadian vehicle survey, vehicle-kilometres and passenger-kilometres for trucks 4.5 tonnes to 14.9 tonnes, by type of trip"
125,"Farm cash receipts represent the cash income received from the sale of agricultural commodities as well as direct program payments. Farm market receipts are cash receipts from the sales of grain and field crops, fruits, vegetables, floriculture and nursery products, maple and forest products, livestock, milk, poultry, eggs, fur and honey."
10213,Provides a statistical overview of various geographic areas based on a number of detailed variables.
4415,"Households and the environment survey, homegrown fruit, herbs, vegetables and flowers, Canada, provinces and census metropolitan areas (CMA)"
3355,"The Conditional Release Appeal Decisions dataset provides information on the number and results of decisions rendered by the PBC Appeal Division during a given period. Decisions are sorted according to location and final decision. Items found in this dataset include, among others, jurisdiction, decision purpose, sentence type, review type, race, gender and offence type."
6632,"Distribution of farm families and average total income by typology group, unincorporated sector"
7129,"Contact with health professionals about mental health, by age group and sex, household population aged 12 and over, territories"
4617,"International transactions in securities, portfolio transactions with non-residents in Canadian money market, foreign bonds, and foreign stocks, by type"
6910,Ordinary sales results of life insurance in Canada
9432,"Historical releases of merchandise imports and exports, customs and balance of payments basis for all countries, by seasonal adjustment and North American Product Classification System (NAPCS)"
6645,"Survey of innovation and business strategy, business activities undertaken, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and enterprise size, all surveyed industries"
10679,Civil Aviation Flying Program Projected Assignments
10743,"CCARCS is a national web-based system used to issue and maintain aircraft registration marks, collect aircraft identification data, maintain name and address of the registered owner and other technical data, for all civil aircraft which are registered in Canada.  CCARCS provides direct support to TC essential services of Civil Aviation: National Operations, International Operations, Standards and the five Civil Aviation Regions."
10137,"The Road Network File is a digital representation of Canada's road network, containing information such as street names, types, directions and address ranges. "
3659,A list of Canadian General Standards Board newly published standards in order to be in compliance with the national standards system.
5670,"Land cover by category, Canada, major drainage areas and sub-drainage areas"
1756,"Extractable organohalogens were measured in muscle, testis, heart and brain from cod (Gadus morhua) taken from St. Chad's, Little Catalina, Hopeall, LaScie, Ferryland, Petty Harbour, and  offshore Newfoundland location. Extractable organo chlorine, bromine and iodine were measured by neutron activation analysis. Purpose: For those interested in contaminant research."
1985,"This dataset contains the Manual of Abbreviations for National Defence (DND) and the Canadian Armed Forces (CAF), is issued on authority of the Chief of Defence Staff.  The aim of the Manual of Abbreviations is to give a list of all abbreviations used in DND/CAF.  "
2343,"Polychlorinated dibenzodioxins (dioxins) and polychlorinated dibenzofurans (furans) are highly persistent compounds. These substances are listed on the List of Toxic Substances of CEPA 1999. The largest source of dioxins and furans in Canada is the large-scale burning of municipal and medical waste. Other major sources include production of iron and steel, backyard burning of household waste, fuel burning, wood burning, electrical power generation, and tobacco smoke.

The National Pollutant Release Inventory (NPRI) is Canada's public inventory of pollutant releases (to air, water and land), disposals and transfers for recycling. Under the authority of the Canadian Environmental Protection Act, 1999 (CEPA 1999), owners or operators of facilities in Canada that meet the published reporting requirements are required to report to the NPRI.  Reported pollutants include toxic substances, air pollutants and other substances of concern.

NPRI data is available for the years 1993 - 2013 in a number of formats including online query tools, downloadable datasets (along with corresponding database structure tables) and map layers.

There are important factors that should be considered prior to the use and interpretation of NPRI data.  Additional information is available on the NPRI web site."
7418,"Balance of international payments, financial account"
7866,"Mortality and potential years of life lost, by selected causes of death and sex, three-year average, Canada, provinces, territories, health regions and peer groups"
10028,"Canadian vehicle survey, vehicle-kilometres for buses, by type of vehicle and purpose of trip (specific to vehicle type)"
8379,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
4002,"Foreign exchange rates, United States"
3133,Diagnostic database for forest pathogens.
9910,"Building permits, by type of structure and area, seasonally adjusted"
2227,"This map shows the projected average change in mean temperature for 2080s (2081-2100), with respect to the reference period of 1986-2005, based on CMIP5 multi-model ensemble results for RCP2.6 (for the 50th percentile of the distribution of the CMIP5 ensemble).

For more maps on projected change, please visit the Canadian Climate Data and Scenarios (CCDS) site: http://ccds-dscc.ec.gc.ca/index.php?page=download-cmip5."
8670,"The Road Network File is a digital representation of Canada's road network, containing information such as street names, types, directions and address ranges. "
1094,The indicator represents the total number of Preliminary Assessment reports completed on-time per the total number of Preliminary Assessment reports that were due for the reporting period (within 5 working days of sentence commencement date).
6562,"Households and the environment survey, parks and green spaces, by household income, Canada"
8166,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
10797,Information regarding requests submitted under the Access to Information Act for a fiscal year.
9890,"Survey of innovation and business strategy, importance of obstacles when relocating or outsourcing business activities to another country, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and enterprise size, all surveyed industries"
9207,"Engineering services, sales by type of client based on the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
1121,"Total number of registrations for Canada School of Public Service learning activities by title, code, delivery type and fiscal year. 
Data as of September 15, 2017. "
1297,"The Canadian Atlantic Storm Project (CASP) provided an accurate set of open-ocean wave spectra in a variety of conditions from an array of 9 wave buoys (3 directional, 6 non-directional) along a 30-km line offshore from Martinique Beach, NS. A large set of high-quality wave spectra was collected in conjunction with extensive meteorological information. The data set is unique in that a large onshore swell component was normally present.
PURPOSE: To study waves in Coastal Nova Scotia area."
4829,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
5260,"Internet use by individuals, by government on-line activity"
6522,"Retail trade, sales by trade group based on the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
7255,"Civil court survey, general civil cases by level of court and type of action"
9593,"Potential years of life lost, by selected causes of death (ICD-10) and sex, population aged 0 to 74, Canada, provinces and territories"
1861,Images of wolffish dens & surrounding habitat in Newfoundland waters.
2529,"This report is updated quarterly and indicates the existing staffing pools, by classification group and level"
5613,"National balance sheet, financial government business enterprises"
296,"One meter hillshade generated from bare earth DEM.LiDAR Services International (LSI), a Calgary-based LiDAR company completed an airborne LiDAR survey for the Redberry Lake Biosphere Reserve (RLBR) and Agriculture and Agri-Foods Canada (AAFC) in October 2011. The project involved collection of LiDAR data for a 362.97 km2 block area, 252.77 km2 for Redberry Lake and 110.20 km2 for AAFC northwest of Saskatoon, SK."
8753,Summary table. Find data on life expectancy at birth and at age 65.STC
2288,"Aquatic biomonitoring data including benthic invertebrates, algal biomass, fish, water chemistry, and appropriate supporting habitat information collected to provide a direct measure of biotic populations and communities in relation to benchmark or reference conditions in order to assess the health of aquatic ecosystems are included in this dataset. Biomonitoring complements traditional physical/chemical monitoring, and can measure impacts of cumulative stressors in the aquatic environment, including from chemical interactions, contaminant pulses, or unknown contaminants that are difficult to capture with routine chemical sampling. Other stressors that may be captured by biological monitoring include the presence of exotic species, habitat degradation in the water body or surrounding land, climate change, and fluctuations in water quantity."
8849,Average income after tax by economic family types
7991,"Merchandise imports and exports, customs and balance of payments basis for all countries, by seasonal adjustment, price and volume indexes, weighting and North American Product Classification System (NAPCS)"
10273,"Families and Households Highlight Tables, Young adults in the parental home for the population aged 20 to 29 in private households, census divisions, 2011 census - English version. Provides information highlights by topic via key indicators for various levels of geography."
3814,Number of Media Requests Received at Public Services and Procurement Canada
4499,"Business conditions survey, Canadian manufacturing industries, by province"
4948,"For-hire motor carrier freight services price index, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
9604,"Canadian vehicle survey, passenger-kilometres for vehicles up to 4.5 tonnes by vehicle group and purpose of trip"
2528,This Org chart lists senior level staff on the external FedDev Ontario website
5869,Travel price index
1106,The indicator represents the total number of Preliminary Assessment reports completed on-time per the total number of Preliminary Assessment reports that were due for the reporting period (within 5 working days of sentence commencement date).
5468,"Unmet health care needs, by age group and sex, household population aged 12 and over, Canada, provinces, territories, health regions (January 2000 boundaries) and peer groups"
7875,"Survey of innovation and business strategy, changes resulting from product innovation introduced, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and enterprise size, all surveyed industries"
8341,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
8191,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
9009,"Energy fuel consumption of the manufacturing sector, by subsectors"
9774,"Gross domestic product (GDP) at basic prices, special industry aggregations based on the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
2580,A series of health-related data sets from various quantitative public opinion research studies. 
9630,"Consumer Price Index (CPI), 2001 basket content"
9722,"Capital and repair expenditures, industry sector 54, professional, scientific and technical services"
10460,"The boundary files portray the geographic limits used for census dissemination. They are available for download in two types: cartographic and digital. Cartographic boundary files depict the geographic areas using only the shorelines of the major land mass of Canada and its coastal islands. Digital boundary files depict the full extent of the geographic areas, including the coastal water area. The files provide a framework for mapping and spatial analysis using commercially available geographic information systems (GIS) or other mapping software."
1421,"Stomach contents from 4Vn Sentinel Surveys ( Sydney Bight ) from 1994 to present.
PURPOSE: Prey - predator relationship study."
1766,"The objective of the study was to determine the impact (if any) of a salmon counting fence (consisting of plastic and metal parts) on the water quality of the Campbellton River. Water samples were collected at various times during the year 2001 from the Campbellton River, at three sites (above, below and at the fence or intake). Water samples were analysed by ICP-MS (Sciex Elan 6000) for trace elements (K, Na, Li, Mg, Al, Ca, Si, V, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, Zn, As, Sr, Mo, Cd, Ba, Pb). Purpose: For those interested in contaminant research."
5658,Annual admissions to shelters
8872,Summary table. Find data on body mass index (BMI) for adults by province and territory by year. Number of persons.STC
2576,"The data extract is a series of compressed ASCII text files of the full data set contained in the Canada Vigilance Adverse Reaction Online Database. It is intended for users who are familiar with database structures and setting up their own queries. Find details on the data structure required for the data file in the Canada Vigilance Adverse Reaction Online Database - Data Structure. In order to use the data, the file must be loaded into an existing database or information system provided by the user. The Canada Vigilance Adverse Reaction Online Database contains information about suspected adverse reactions (also known as side effects) to health products, captured from adverse reaction reports submitted to Health Canada by consumers and health professionals, who submit reports voluntarily, as well as by market authorization holders (manufacturers and distributors), who are required to submit reports according to the Food and Drugs Regulations. Information concerning vaccines used for immunization have only been included in the database since January 1, 2011. Indication data has recently been added to the data extract files and the Detailed Adverse Reaction Report. Indication refers to the particular condition for which a health product was taken. For example, diabetes is an indication for insulin. Health products are often authorised for use in treating more than one indication. Note: The database cannot be used on its own to evaluate a health product's safety profile. It does not provide conclusive information on the safety of health products, and is not a substitute for medical advice. Should you have an issue of medical concern, consult a qualified health professional. "
6145,International oil production and proved reserves
9841,"Survey of innovation, selected service industries, percentage of business units that carried out certain types of geomatics activities"
818,Uncompleted checklists for use in inspections of Class I and Class II nuclear facilities.
7548,"Retail trade, sales by trade sector based on the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
9388,"Lumber production, shipments and stocks, by Canada and provinces"
7406,Farm cash receipts from dairy products
2896,"Canada is the world’s fifth largest producer of natural gas and accounts for around five per cent of global production. Natural gas production in Canada is predominantly from the Western Canadian Sedimentary Basin in British Columbia, Alberta, and Saskatchewan, although other gas is produced from offshore Nova Scotia and smaller amounts are produced in Ontario, New Brunswick, and Nunavut. While Canadian production of conventional natural gas has been declining, production of Canadian unconventional natural gas has been rising. Development of unconventional resources like tight gas is technologically challenging and companies are increasingly using horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing to create economically viable wells. Canadian natural gas supply currently exceeds domestic consumption. Canada’s natural gas markets are heavily integrated with those of the United States and Canada exports its surplus natural gas to the U.S. while importing smaller amounts from the U.S. into Central Canada in return. While some companies have proposed exporting natural gas to overseas markets by liquefying it (liquefied natural gas or LNG), any projects that are actually built are not likely to be operational until towards the end of the decade. The National Energy Board regulates the export and import of natural gas. Export orders or licenses are required to export natural gas from Canada. Holders of export authorizations report monthly on their export activities to the Board."
4367,"Social support, by age group and sex, household population aged 12 and over, selected provinces, territories and health regions (June 2005 boundaries)"
4193,"Age-standardized 180-day net survival rate for all stroke (ICD-10), by sex, population aged 45 and over, selected provinces"
5621,Retail commodity survey based on the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)
8673,"This table provides statistical information about people in Canada by their demographic, social and economic characteristics as well as provide information about the housing units in which they live."
5220,"Industry price indexes for non-metallic mineral products and petroleum and coal products, by regions"
3446,"To show the locations of campsites on Parks Canada sites, campsites administered by Parks Canada, or other campsites of interest to Parks Canada."
1098,Provides data on Urinalysis test results
3239,This product provides building information of Canada Lands located in the Atlantic Provinces. The building information is derived from survey field work. The data is available in Shapefile format.
2267,"Long-term freshwater quality monitoring data for over 19 sites in the Lower Mackenzie River Basin for the past 15 years or longer for nutrients, metals, major ions, and other physical-chemical variables are included in this dataset. Monitoring is conducted by Environment and Climate Change Canada (ECCC) and in collaboration with Parks Canada to assess water quality status and long-term trends, detect emerging issues, establish water quality guidelines and track the effectiveness of remedial measures and regulatory decisions."
3352,"The Conditional Release Appeal Decisions dataset provides information on the number and results of decisions rendered by the PBC Appeal Division during a given period. Decisions are sorted according to location and final decision. Items found in this dataset include, among others, jurisdiction, decision purpose, sentence type, review type, race, gender and offence type."
8366,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
5918,Value of established natural gas reserves
3991,"United States Gross National Product (GNP), seasonally adjusted at annual rates"
6141,"Farm input price index, animal production"
9971,"Historical statistics, population in incorporated centres, by size groups"
2263,"This dataset contains 21 statistics (including extreme indices; see definition attached) of wind and waves calculated from hourly reanalysis data of historical surface winds and ocean surface waves for the Canadian East Coast for the period 1954-2015 (each statistic has an annual, 4 seasonal, and 12 monthly values). The hourly wind and waves data may be obtained upon request from MSC Climate Services on a cost-recovery basis (data handling/extraction fee).  Reference: (1) Swail, V. R., and A. T. Cox, 2000: On the use of NCEP/NCAR reanalysis surface marine wind fields for a long-term North Atlantic wave hindcast. J. Atmos. Oceanic Technol., 17, 532–545. (2) Wang and Swail (2001): Trends of Atlantic Wave Extremes as Simulated in a 40-Yr Wave Hindcast Using Kinematically Reanalyzed Wind Fields. J. Clim. 15, 1020-1035."
9243,"Upper income limit, income share and average of market, total and after-tax income by economic family type and income decile, Canada and provinces"
8628,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
9996,"Body mass index (BMI), by age group and sex, household population aged 18 and over excluding pregnant women, Canada, provinces, territories, health regions (January 2000 boundaries) and peer groups"
7538,"Survey of innovation, logging and manufacturing industries, development of new or significantly improved processes"
10754,Delineation of a 100L propane tank projectile fragments from a Boiling Liquid Expanding Vapor Explosion (BLEVE) along the Isle-aux-Coudres ferry route.
2376,"The PMIS Central repository of project information for approved projects in ESDC.  The dataset includes project information, gating and project delivery documentation, risk/issue and change logs and the project schedule.  It will also house an project knowledge repository for all archived projects. 
PMIS-Project Server resides in a SQL database."
1240,"This dataset contains all releases of juvenile salmon and trout from Salmonid Enhancement Program facilities in British Columbia and Yukon. The data includes release stage, location, date, average weight and any coded wire tags or marks that were placed on the fish prior to release."
4035,"Census of Agriculture, farms classified by area in crops and summerfallow (excluding Christmas tree area)"
9091,"Income of immigrants, by world area, sex, immigrant admission category, education qualifications, knowledge of official languages and landing year for Quebec, tax year 2013"
2380,CPP Contributors Tables provide historical statistics (by year) on the number of contributors by place of residence and the distribution of contributors by earnings.
10037,"Labour force survey estimates (LFS), by census metropolitan area based on 2011 Census boundaries, 3-month moving average, seasonally adjusted and unadjusted"
8240,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
9230,"Wool, production and supply"
10641,Web based application linked to an Oracle database for the purpose of producing Inspection or Audit checklists and reports to be used by Aerodrome Safety inspectors.
9842,Stocks of frozen eggs and edible dried eggs
8675,"This table provides statistical information about people in Canada by their demographic, social and economic characteristics as well as provide information about the housing units in which they live."
7792,"Regular medical doctor, by age group and sex, household population aged 12 and over, Canada, provinces, territories, health regions (June 2005 boundaries) and peer groups"
9108,"Body mass index (BMI), Canadian standard, by age group and sex, household population aged 20 to 64 excluding pregnant women, territories"
4377,Average prices for selected classes and grades of cattle
10229,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
4252,"Seniors' characteristics, by family type, age of oldest individual and source of income"
42,AAFC e-mail distribution lists contained in the PubliCentrale system.
9236,"Labour force survey estimates (LFS), by Montréal, Toronto and Vancouver census metropolitan areas based on 2006 census boundaries, seasonally adjusted and unadjusted"
8162,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
5305,"Area of major sea islands, by region"
9925,"Balance of international payments, current account, goods by principal trading partners"
5286,"Population by selected ethnic origins, by census metropolitan areas (2006 Census)"
8912,Labour force characteristics by sex and age group
6701,"Unemployment rate, by age group, Canada, provinces, health regions (January 2000 boundaries) and peer groups"
2485,"Database containing the annual business planning of the Old Age Security (OAS) processing centre, Quebec Region.
It helps to anticipate work that may be done by operations at the OAS processing centre, Quebec Region, and to do planning according to the types of activities, business lines, human resources available and established productivity targets. 
Contains data related to the types of activities, business lines according to the human resources available and productivity targets. "
1109,The indicator represents the median percentage of time served from admission to federal custody to first release for those offenders with a determinate sentence.
8576,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
4404,Travel price index
2900,"Canada is the world’s fifth largest producer of natural gas and accounts for around five per cent of global production. Natural gas production in Canada is predominantly from the Western Canadian Sedimentary Basin in British Columbia, Alberta, and Saskatchewan, although other gas is produced from offshore Nova Scotia and smaller amounts are produced in Ontario, New Brunswick, and Nunavut. While Canadian production of conventional natural gas has been declining, production of Canadian unconventional natural gas has been rising. Development of unconventional resources like tight gas is technologically challenging and companies are increasingly using horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing to create economically viable wells. Canadian natural gas supply currently exceeds domestic consumption. Canada’s natural gas markets are heavily integrated with those of the United States and Canada exports its surplus natural gas to the U.S. while importing smaller amounts from the U.S. into Central Canada in return. While some companies have proposed exporting natural gas to overseas markets by liquefying it (liquefied natural gas or LNG), any projects that are actually built are not likely to be operational until towards the end of the decade. The National Energy Board regulates the export and import of natural gas. Export orders or licenses are required to export natural gas from Canada. Holders of export authorizations report monthly on their export activities to the Board."
1785,"This dataset contains information on the biology and production of salmonids and limnological data for numerous lakes on the Avalon Peninsula, Newfoundland. Purpose: This is a historic database on the biology, production, and exploitation of trout populations on the Avalon Peninsula, used in the planning, development, and implementation of management strategies and for basic trout biological and ecological research."
3994,"International transactions in services, travel by category and geographical area"
5027,"Cancer incidence, by selected sites of cancer and sex, three-year average, Canada, provinces, territories and health regions (June 2005 boundaries)"
5774,"Aquaculture economic statistics, value added account"
4172,"Historical releases of wholesale trade, sales, chained dollars and price index based on the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
188,"“Biomass Inventory Mapping and Analysis Tool – Business Data” provides a number of datasets related to the yield and production of residues from the agricultural and forestry industry and agricultural crops.The datasets contain agricultural residue production information (for example, straw or stover) for barley, wheat, flax, oats and corn, and crop production information for barley, wheat, flax, oats, corn, canola and soybean. They also include information about amounts of straw required for cattle bedding and feeding, the type of tillage used in an area, and the amount of residue needed for soil conservation purposes.Datasets in the series provide the yield, production and other information for the median year and 1-in-10 year and 1-in-20 year lows.The forestry inventory dataset provides information about the location and quantity of residues from the forestry industry, as well as urban wood waste and potential sites and productivity of plantations of fast-growing trees that are grown as feedstock. Forestry residues include material left at the roadside after harvesting and excess and waste materials from mills.A transportation network dataset and datasets that are used to calculate cost to harvest and transport biomass are also included in this series."
5272,"Producer price index, goods - Industrial product price indexes"
2081,"This data set is composed of a vector map situating wetland zones along the St. Lawrence River and estuary. The map is derived from detailed mapping, in raster format, produced from remote sensing data (IKONOS sensor) acquired in 2002, as part of the State of the St. Lawrence Monitoring Program. A general classification distinguished the main types of wetlands and main soil use classes on the first kilometre of the shore. The Shapefile format map is made up of a series of polygons to which the following descriptive attributes are linked: CLASS (digital code identifying the type of wetland), LEGENDE (French name of the class), LEGEND (English name of the class), SUPM2 (area in m2).
The general classification includes the following classes. 1: open water. 2: shallow open water. 3: denuded substrate. 4: low marsh. 5: low marsh co-dominated by Purple Loosestrife. 6: high marsh. 7: high marsh dominated by Common Reed. 8: high marsh co-dominated by Purple Loosestrife. 9: high marsh dominated by Reed Canarygrass. 10: Shrub swamp. 11: forested swamp. 12: harvested peatlands. 13: agriculture and meadows. 14: fallow land. 15: forest. 16: built-up area and upland. 17: clouds and shade."
6160,"Implicit price indexes, provincial gross domestic product (GDP), outside Canada"
7037,"Final demand categories, by commodity, S-level aggregation"
253,"The National Ecological Framework for Canada's ""Surface Material by Ecodistrict” dataset provides surface material information within the ecodistrict framework polygon. It provides surface material codes and their English and French language descriptions as well as information about the percentage of the polygon that the component occupies.
 Surface material includes the abiotic material at the earth's surface. The materials can be: ICE and SNOW - Glacial ice and permanent snow ORGANIC SOIL - Contains more than 30% organic matter as measured by weight ROCK - Rock undifferentiated MINERAL SOIL - Predominantly mineral particles: contains less than 30% organic matter as measured by weight URBAN - Urban areas. Note that only a few major urban area polygons are included on SLC source maps, therefore, do not use for tabulating total urban coverage."
976,This dataset provides information on contracts issued by or on behalf of the Canadian Space Agency (CSA).
6383,"Labour force survey estimates (LFS), by National Occupational Classification (NOC) and sex, unadjusted for seasonality"
2192,"Several types of Ambient Gases and Particles data are available for download depending on site:
- Filter Pack (24-hour integrated concentrations of particle-bound SO42-, NO3-, Cl-, NH4+, Ca2+, Mg2+, Na+, K+ and gaseous SO2 and HNO3 collected daily by the Canadian Air and Precipitation Monitoring Network)
- Ozone (hourly mixing ratios measured by the Canadian Air and Precipitation Monitoring Network)
 - Total Gaseous Mercury (hourly mixing ratios measured by the Canadian Air and Precipitation Monitoring Network and Prairie and Northern Region)
- Polycyclic Aromatic Compounds (PACs) - Passive Sampling (monthly or bimonthly integrated concentrations of PACs in PUF disk-type passive air samplers (normalized to deployment time, per day)
- Particulate metals (24 hour integrated samples following the one in six day National Air Pollution Surveillance (NAPS) cycle)
- Atmospheric speciated mercury (Hg) (2-hour average concentrations of gaseous elemental Hg (GEM), reactive gaseous Hg (RGM), and Hg on PM2.5 (total particulate Hg - TPM)
- Comprehensive set of measurements collected from an aircraft (various time resolutions). The aircraft data cover an area of 140,000 km2 over the oil sands region near Fort McMurray, with the area bounded by -112.165, 58.386, -109.110, 56.563
- Comprehensive set of measurements collected from the Fort McKay Oski-ôtin monitoring site"
2434,"The purpose of the qualitative research was to pre-test the effectiveness of the creative concepts. The specific research objectives included: 
•Assess the communication effectiveness of each concept
•Identify possible revisions to each approach that might improve its communication effectiveness
•Identify which are the stronger concepts"
6219,Industrial product price indexes for primary metal products and metal fabricated products industries
9014,"Estimates of population by census division, sex and age group for July 1, based on the Standard Geographical Classification (SGC) 2006"
555,Temporary residents who are in Canada on a work permit or study permit in the observed calendar year. Datasets include Temporary Foreign Worker Program (TFWP) and International Mobility Program (IMP) work permit and study permit holders by year in which permit(s) became effective.
2350,"The National Pollutant Release Inventory (NPRI) is Canada's public inventory of pollutant releases (to air, water and land), disposals and transfers for recycling.  

This file contains the most commonly used NPRI data fields, within a simplified tabular format, including all facility-reported pollutant releases, disposals and transfers for recycling for a given year, listed by facility and substance. 

There are important factors that should be considered prior to the use and interpretation of NPRI data. Additional information is available on the NPRI web site."
8768,Charitable donors
1363,"A total of 3684 lobsters were tagged off northeastern Cape Breton between 1993 and 1995. Tagged lobsters ranged in size from 52-130 mm carapace length (CL); average size was 78 mm CL. The total first-time recapture rate was 57% over 1-2 years, ranging from 25-73% for individual areas. For those lobsters at large over one molting period, growth increments ranged from 8.7-13.1 mm CL. Greater than 80% of lobsters were recaptured less than 6 km from their release site. There was no detectable effect of size or gender on distance moved. Multiple recaptures of single lobsters indicate a variety of movement patterns."
10019,"Balance of international payments, direct investment conceptual presentations"
10055,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
2182,"Micrometeorological variables were collected with state of the art instrumentation in campaign mode from a station located near Barrow, Alaska, USA: Vertical wind information was recorded by SODAR; atmospheric turbulence was recorded by sonic anemometer; and temperature, atmospheric pressure, and radiation were recorded by Campbell Scientific instrumentation. Wind components at 4 different height levels recorded by sonic anemometers are archived at 15 minute intervals in one campaign file. SODAR data of the vertical profile of the horizontal and vertical wind components are archived at 30-minute intervals. Meteorological data collected by OOTI (Out On The Ice) sled and recorded by Campbell scientific data logger over the ice are archived at 1 minute and 30 minute intervals."
6660,"Low income duration of taxfilers in Canada, provinces and census metropolitan areas (CMA)"
6556,"Survey of innovation and business strategy, determining the pace of work to achieve production performance targets, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and enterprise size, all surveyed industries"
8202,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
487,"Enforcement measure to encourage compliance with the Health of Animals Act, the Plant Protection Act, the Meat Inspection Act and their associated regulations."
10407,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
9320,Business investment in inventories
2143,"Summarized Chemicals Management Plan environmental monitoring and surveillance collected data for perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS), providing information on its spatial and temporal distribution in Canada from 1979 to 2011, and compares measured PFOS concentrations to draft Federal Environmental Quality Guidelines."
7803,"Canadian investors, by investors' characteristics"
8784,"Imports, exports and trade balance of goods on a balance-of-payments basis, by country or country grouping"
5189,"This table provides statistical information about people in Canada by their demographic, social and economic characteristics as well as provide information about the housing units in which they live."
3858,"This dataset contains items that describe and provide details about Government Electronic Tendering Service events. Event items are intended for the public and may be offered as a seminar, webinar, networking day, supplier consultation, or any other engagement activity that supports doing business with the Government of Canada."
8732,"Live births, by age and parity of mother, Canada"
6553,"Federal, provincial and territorial government non-autonomous pension plans balance sheet, as at March 31"
7930,"Employment services, industry expenditures"
2175,"The Pacific 2001 Air Quality Study (PAC2001) was conducted from 1 August to 31 September, 2001 in the Lower Fraser Valley (LFV), British Columbia, Canada. The study consisted of a number of research projects organized to address several issues related to ambient particulate matter and ozone. A special issue of Atmospheric Environment [Vol. 38(34), Nov 2004] describes the study objectives (Li, 2004) and the study results.  The data sets available for download are provided in collaboration with the National Atmospheric Chemistry (NAtChem) Database and Analysis Facility of Environment and Climate Change Canada."
9341,"Sheep statistics, quantity of wool purchased, used on farms, price and farm value"
10695,Technical analysis and categorization of flammable liquids - based on chemical behaviours - performed by Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) for potential requirement of ERAPS
486,"List of Susceptible Species of Aquatic Animals determined if the infection can be demonstrated by natural occurrence of the disease in the species, or by experimental exposure of the species to the disease agent through a pathway that mimics a natural route of infection."
5587,Value of selected natural resource reserves
1585,"Distance measurements of annuli on otoliths of Ikarut River, Labrador, Arctic charr. Purpose: Back-calculation of fish size from otolith measurements. Discontinued."
10256,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
8015,"Enterprises employing services to manage intellectual property, by type of service, selected industry group, 2010"
5649,"Households and the environment survey, primary heating system, Canada, provinces and census metropolitan areas (CMA)"
144,The “Agri-Environmental Indicator (AEI) - Livestock Emissions from Agriculture “ dataset provides estimated net emissions produced by livestock from Soil Landscapes of Canada agricultural areas for census years from 1981 to 2011.
4569,Laspeyres fixed weighted imports and exports volume indexes
7997,"Financial ratios of farms, by farm type, incorporated and unincorporated sectors, Canada"
4412,"Postsecondary savings for children 0 to 17 years old, by child characteristics"
10590,Technical analysis and categorization of flammable liquids - based on chemical behaviours - performed by Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) for potential requirement of ERAPS
2726,"This program activity provided additional funding in the amount of $500 million (added to the Building Canada Fund-Communities Component program activity funding) to fund additional infrastructure projects in communities with populations of less than 100,000. The additional top-up funds were initiated given the economic recession and followed Budget 2009 (Economic Action Plan) and the government's decision to accelerate infrastructure funding and provide short-term economic stimulus. As part of the Economic Action Plan, the top-up to the Building Canada Fund – Communities Component provided an additional $500 million to be spent in the 2009-10 to 2010-11 fiscal years, in jurisdictions that have fully committed all of their regular Communities Component of the Building Canada Fund. The funds are to be allocated to projects that can be materially completed by March 31, 2011. Projects are selected through the same process as the Building Canada Fund-Communities Component program activity. Regional Development Agencies were federal partners for delivery of the Community Component Top-Up."
10417,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
8030,"Registered apprenticeship training, registrations by major trade groups and sex"
4563,"Standard work week for salaried employees (paid a fixed salary) (SEPH), excluding overtime, for selected industries classified using the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
7396,"Actual traffic offences reported, by type of offence, Canada, provinces and 12 selected police metropolitan areas"
9263,"Implicit price indexes, gross domestic product (GDP) at factor cost, by sector, 1968 System of National Accounts (SNA)"
8602,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
5434,"Farm financial survey, Canadian and regional agricultural balance sheet (gross farm revenue equal to or greater than $10,000)"
6386,Private non-profit organizations' in-house research and development expenditure types
10535,"Net transfer payments are presented by type of payment: grant, contribution and other transfer payment (voted and statutory). All figures presented reflect information previously published in the Public Accounts of Canada, although totals may not match or agree with other information due to rounding. In cases where machinery of government changes (such as creating or merging of organizations, or changes to their responsibilities) have occurred, the data has not been adjusted. "
9932,"Canadian vehicle survey, passenger-kilometres, by type of vehicle and time of day"
7622,"Census of Agriculture, nursery and sod"
1035,"The indicator represents the total number of Full Parole pre-release decisions granted, directed or continued by the Parole Board of Canada (PBC) per the total number of Full Parole pre-release decisions recorded by the PBC."
3890,"The Payments in Lieu of Taxes Program is administered by Public Services and Procurement Canada. Every year more than $550 million is distributed to approximately 1,250 taxing authorities where property owned by federal departments is situated. Payments made under the Payments in Lieu of Taxes Act are based on the principle of fairness respecting both the taxing authorities and the federal government and are equitable in comparison to those made by other property owners. Payments are calculated on the basis of values and tax rates which would, in the opinion of the Minister of Public Services and Procurement, apply to federal property if it were taxable. The dataset lists PILT tax year data: Number of Taxing authorities that receive PILT, Number of applications received and Number of payments issued."
2049,"Trace gas data sets from Canadian and U.S. ground-based monitoring networks from 1982 to the present  including Non-Methane HydroCarbons (NMHC), ozone (O3), greenhouse gases (GHG), comprising carbon monoxide (CO), carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), and Total Gaseous Mercury (TGM).  Canadian federal and provincial networks (past and present) and U.S. historical networks (for data not available elsewhere) are provided."
7222,"Water discharge in mineral extraction and thermal-electric power generation industries, by type of final treatment and region"
2244,"This project was conducted under the umbrella of the 'Variability and Change in the Canadian Cryosphere' network. Passive microwave brightness temperature data were acquired at various spatial resolutions from airborne and spaceborne microwave radiometers during three separate field campaigns in and around: Sept-Îles, Schefferville, Kuujjuaq and Puvirnituq, Quebec (February 18th to March 5th 2008); the Tundra Ecosystem Research Station, Daring Lake, NWT (April 1st to April 10th 2008); and Inuvik, NWT (April 3rd to April 16th 2008). Airborne brightness temperature data were acquired from dual-polarized 6.9, 19.35 and 37 GHz microwave radiometers mounted on board the National Research Council of Canada's (NRC) Twin Otter aircraft at resolutions varying from ~70m to ~700m. The radiometers are installed in a special baggage door located on the port-side and underside of the aircraft, each with a 6º antenna beamwidth, at a 53º incidence angle to simulate the earth-viewing characteristics of the satellite-based Special Sensor Microwave/Imager (SSM/I) and Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer EOS (AMSR-E) sensors. Calibrations were conducted before and after each flight using a two-point, hot and cold target calibration technique. Snow and lake ice measurements were recorded within or close to the footprint of the airborne radiometers and will be used for sub-Arctic and northern boreal forest SWE algorithm development, refinement and validation."
6869,"Balance of international payments, capital and financial account"
8894,Periodical publishers
10402,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
1829,Occurrence and biological data of the marine species present in eastern Canada from 1900 to 2012.
6424,"Business enterprise intramural research and development expenditures, by research and development expenditure size"
3021,A database of CFS publications that is used to populate the CFS publications database website
6069,"Travel survey of residents of Canada, travel characteristics, by province visited"
6521,"Historical releases of the Survey of Employment, Payrolls and Hours (SEPH), employment by type of employee and detailed North American Industry Classification System (NAICS), unadjusted for seasonality"
1788,"Several aquatic invasive species have been found in Atlantic Canadian waters in the recent years. Their presence on boat's hulls can negatively affect fuel efficiency, speed and increase maintenance costs to boat owners. If transported and established in a new region, dense populations of these invasive species can out-compete other organisms for food and space and have negative impacts on shellfish aquaculture and local fisheries. Purpose: Fisheries and Oceans Canada is conducting a short survey of small boats to better understand aquatic invasive species fouling on boats as well as to avoid their introduction in our waters."
298,"One meter hillshade generated from full feature DEM.LiDAR Services International (LSI), a Calgary-based LiDAR company completed an airborne LiDAR survey for the Redberry Lake Biosphere Reserve (RLBR) and Agriculture and Agri-Foods Canada (AAFC) in October 2011. The project involved collection of LiDAR data for a 362.97 km2 block area, 252.77 km2 for Redberry Lake and 110.20 km2 for AAFC northwest of Saskatoon, SK."
6786,"Real estate agents, brokers and appraisers, operating expenses, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
10152,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
8353,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
6127,"Estimates of employees, by industry"
3657,A list of Canadian General Standards Board draft standards available for public review in order to be in compliance with the national standards system.
6270,"Low birth weight babies (500 to less than 2,500 grams), by sex, five-year average, Canada and Inuit regions"
1751,"Dobrocky Seatech Nfld. Ltd. was requested to undertake a survey to obtain background environmental and fisheries data from selected lakes in Labrador. Field sampling of 95 pre-selected lakes for surface water quality, plankton and fish populations, as well as 35 lakes for surface water samples only, was under taken from l6 August to 20 October 1982. All intensively sampled lakes were initially sounded for mean depth and volume calculations by conducting representative transects. A vertical profile of temperature-dissolved oxygen was obtained at maximum lake depth, together with a simultaneous recording of Secchi disc penetration. Discrete water samples were collected for the field determination of pH, alkalinity, conductivity and free carbon dioxide. Analysis of additional water quality variables was performed in the laboratory, including a major ion balance, nutrients, colour, turbidity, dissolved organic carbon and aluminum. Vertical net plank ton tows were carried out at each sampling location, and nannoplankton samples were also collected. Bottom and/or surface floating gillnet gangs were set in every lake. Fork length, weight, sex and maturity were determined for individual fish. Scales or otoliths were removed for aging. Purposes, and fin rays were also collected from certain species. All fish were aged and successive scale annuli measured to determine back calculated growth. Sections of dorso-lateral fish tissue were removed from a representative number of type species at each lake and analyzed for mercury and aluminum concentrations. Purpose: For those interested in contaminant research."
451,"Provides details on how many calls were made, the number of calls dropped, the number of VIP clients calling in, and other essential details. "
5779,"Distribution of capital expenditures on pollution abatement and control (end-of-pipe) and pollution prevention, by type of environmental medium, Canada, provinces and territories"
10350,"Families and Households Highlight Tables, Age group and sex for foster children, for Canada, provinces and territories, 2011 census - English version. Provides information highlights by topic via key indicators for various levels of geography."
8632,"The Road Network File is a digital representation of Canada's road network, containing information such as street names, types, directions and address ranges. "
7623,"Foreign exchange rates in Canadian dollars, Bank of Canada"
5556,"Market, total and after-tax income of individuals, where each individual is represented by their adjusted household income, by economic family type and adjusted after-tax income quintiles, 2011 constant dollars"
3698,"The Department of Public Services and Procurement Canada, in its role as Receiver General for Canada, is responsible for the management and safeguarding of all federal government money. The Receiver General uses a centralized banking system (Government Banking System or GBS) to record the inflow of funds. Data is stored in the GBS detailing the dates and amounts for deposits received at financial institutions.
This dataset, entitled “Summary of remittance deposits collected on behalf of participating federal departments”, provides details extracted from the Government Banking System of statistical information related to payments made by the public at their financial institution to the credit of the Receiver General. The incoming payments detailed within this dataset are initiated through one of two manners: (1) Paper-based bill payments where the client goes to their financial institution and makes a payment to the credit of the Receiver General using a physical payment remittance stub; and (2) electronic bill payments wherein the client makes a payment through their online/telephone banking portal, or through other electronic means offered by their financial institution – these types of payments are termed as Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) remittances.

The dataset is composed of four unique datafiles: (1) Electronic Data Interchange Batch Statistics, (2) Electronic Data Interchange Detail Statistics, (3) Paper-Based Remittance Deposit Statistics, and (4) Paper-Based Remittance Batch Statistics. 

All transactions have been either aggregated or anonymized.

Updates will be posted quarterly."
1874,"Catch data and biological measures (sampled weight, length, age, sex, maturity) on several fish and invertebrate species as well as oceanographic data (pressure, conductivity, temperature, derived variables) collected by the DFO during random stratified sampling missions. Data was collected by trawl onboard the ''Gadus Atlantica'' in the Gulf of St. Lawrence from 1978 to 1994."
7000,"Pain or discomfort by severity, by age group and sex, household population aged 12 and over, Canada, provinces, territories, health regions (January 2000 boundaries) and peer groups"
2807,"This file contains data collected during a labour force survey of Canadians concerning details of their travel between July 1, 1974 and September 30, 1974. Some data relate to trips taken in 1973. These datasets have been converted from their legacy file structures and encoding schemes so they can be used by contemporary computers that are based upon the ASCII character-encoding scheme. Each dataset will require specialized software such as a statistical tool, to interpret and analyze the content in each file. The attached codebook describes the file’s structure and defines the variables contained in each field. Each code book is a compilation of the summary description of the dataset as provided by the creating department.  As such, it is available in English only."
6047,Production and disposition of tobacco products
9562,Number and value of pelts produced
10628,"excel worksheets created on monthly basis (P1 thought P.12) for every RC Manager with delegated funding. These reports provide information on Budgets, Forecast,  YTD spending and various trend analysis. PAAC draws the data from the standard SMS, BO and Hyperion reports to update and reconcile information on monthly basis.  "
2270,"Long-term freshwater quality monitoring data for over five sites in the Peace - Athabasca River Basin for the past 15 years or longer for nutrients, metals, major ions, and other physical-chemical variables are included in this dataset. Monitoring is conducted by Environment and Climate Change Canada (ECCC) as well as through the Joint Oil Sands Monitoring Program, or in collaboration with Parks Canada and the Northwest Territories to assess water quality status and long-term trends, detect emerging issues, establish water quality guidelines and track the effectiveness of remedial measures and regulatory decisions."
5990,"Health behaviour in school-aged children 2002, student response to question: How many days a week do you usually spend time with friends right after school?"
547,Producers can use the following charts to prevent spoilage of stored grain
9546,"Financial flows, mutual funds"
7823,"The Road Network File is a digital representation of Canada's road network, containing information such as street names, types, directions and address ranges. "
187,"The ""Areas of Non-Contributing Drainage within Total Gross Drainage Areas of the AAFC Watersheds Project - 2013"" dataset is a geospatial data layer containing polygon features representing the areas within the “total gross drainage areas” of each gauging station of the Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada (AAFC) Watersheds Project that DO NOT contribute to average runoff. A “total gross drainage area” is the maximum area that could contribute runoff for a single gauging station – the “areas of non-contributing drainage” are those parts of that “total gross drainage area” that DO NOT contribute to average runoff. For each “total gross drainage area” there can be none to several unconnected “areas of non-contributing drainage”.These polygons may overlap with those from other gauging stations’ “total gross drainage area”, as upstream land surfaces form part of multiple downstream gauging stations’ “total gross drainage areas”."
6401,"Adults with and without disabilities, by age group and sex, Canada, provinces and territories"
6026,Electric power selling price indexes (non-residential)
220,"The “Incremental Effective Drainage Areas of the AAFC Watersheds Project– 2013” dataset is a geospatial data layer containing polygon features representing the portions of each incremental gross drainage area of the Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada (AAFC) Watersheds Project that could be expected to contribute to surface runoff under average runoff conditions. An ‘incremental gross drainage area’ is a hydrometric gauging station's drainage basin, less that of the next upstream gauging station(s)’. ‘Effective drainage’ occurs in areas that are expected to supply surface runoff in an average runoff."
1765,"In this study, done as part of the Labrador Food Web project, baseline metal concentrations were measured in sediment and water. Samples were collected during 1999 in the Voisey's Bay area. Water samples were analysed by ICP-MS (Sciex Elan 6000) for trace elements (Li, Na, Mg, Al, Si, K, Ca, V, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, Zn, As, Rb, Sr, Mo, Cd, Ba, Pb). Sediment samples were analysed for trace metals by ICP-MS (MUN ICP-MS facility). Purpose: For those interested in contaminant research."
5123,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
5989,"Number and median age of full-time teaching staff at Canadian universities, by highest earned degree, staff functions, rank, sex, Canada and Provinces"
1550,List of Publications from the Pacific Biological Station and related staff (not including (IOS)).
3001,"Stations containing prime movers, electric generators, and auxiliary equipment for converting mechanical, chemical into electric energy with an installed capacity of 1 Megawatt or more generated from renewable energy, including biomass, hydroelectric, pumped-storage hydroelectric, geothermal, solar, and wind. Mapping Resources implemented as part of the North American Cooperation on Energy Information (NACEI) between the Department of Energy of the United States of America, the Department of Natural Resources of Canada, and the Ministry of Energy of the United Mexican States. The participating Agencies and Institutions shall not be held liable for improper or incorrect use of the data described and/or contained herein. These data and related graphics, if available, are not legal documents and are not intended to be used as such. The information contained in these data is dynamic and may change over time and may differ from other official information. The Agencies and Institutions participants give no warranty, expressed or implied, as to the accuracy, reliability, or completeness of these data.
"
10211,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
491,Licences of registered establishments or companies can be suspended or cancelled for failing to comply with relevant CFIA Acts and Regulations.
8846,"Median total income, by family type, by census metropolitan area"
9123,"Receipts and disposition of crude oil and pentanes plus, by source"
530,Describes the end-use quality of Canadian oilseed-type soybeans surveyed from the annual harvest.
9653,"National balance sheet, financial corporations including government business enterprises"
1001,The indicator represents the total number of Preliminary Assessment reports completed on-time per the total number of Preliminary Assessment reports that were due for the reporting period (within 5 working days of sentence commencement date).
1872,Database on the occurrences and the biological characteristics of the northern Gulf of St. Lawrence fishes from 1933 to 2012.
6708,Pulpwood production for domestic consumption and stocks on hand
9962,"Supply and use tables, link 1997 level, purchasers' and basic prices"
8535,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
4441,"Survey of Employment, Payrolls and Hours (SEPH), employment and average weekly earnings (including overtime) for all employees by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS), seasonally adjusted"
5992,"Canadian vehicle survey, passenger-kilometres, by type of vehicle, type of day and time of day"
992,"The analysis of the number of waivers, postponements and adjournments of pre-release day and full parole reviews that have occurred. Functionality is provided to allow comparisons and analyses or race, gender, period and location to be made. "
8901,"Wholesale merchants sales, by province and territory (monthly)"
8483,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
10488,Summary table. Find data on suicides in Canada by year. Both sexes number. STC
10712,"The Vehicles Recall Database is used by the Defect Investigations and Recalls Division to record recalls and monitor recall completion rates pertaining to vehicles, tires, and child restraints. The API excludes all the “inconsequential” or “non-safety related” recall data."
4943,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
7834,"Canadian Income Survey (CIS), persons in low income, Canada and provinces"
8356,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
2228,"This map shows the projected average change in mean temperature for 2080s (2081-2100), with respect to the reference period of 1986-2005, based on CMIP5 multi-model ensemble results for RCP4.5 (for the 50th percentile of the distribution of the CMIP5 ensemble).

For more maps on projected change, please visit the Canadian Climate Data and Scenarios (CCDS) site: http://ccds-dscc.ec.gc.ca/index.php?page=download-cmip5."
10524,"Supplementary Estimates directly support an appropriation act. Supplementary Estimates are published throughout the year; each release is identified alphabetically (A, B, C, etc.). Supplementary Estimates (B) are tabled in late October or early November and the associated appropriation act is granted royal assent in December. "
9,“The “Biomass Report Framework” dataset is a fishnet polygon fabric used as a common spatial reporting framework for BIMAT that covers the extent of Canada.
2475,"The objective of the public opinion research is to build upon existing data and analysis on the availability, interest and level of preparedness for public sector employment of the Inuit of Nunavut (specifically those who are beneficiaries under the Nunavut Land Claim Agreement (NLCA))."
2402,"The objective of the public opinion survey was to better understand the perceptions of Canadians regarding labour market challenges and opportunities in order to deal with concerns and build stakeholder support.
Following a strategic long-term economic plan titled Advantage Canada, the Government of Canada is committed to a goal of creating the world’s best-educated, most skilled and most flexible labour force. To understand the issues, principles and challenges from a public opinion perspective, the Government of Canada requires a quantitative analysis of these topics in a national opinion survey."
6700,"Mortgage companies statements of estimated assets, liabilities and shareholders' equity"
9998,"Flows and stocks of fixed non-residential capital, by sector of North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and asset, Canada"
3482,"Stiff Yellow Flax (Linum medium var. medium) is considered as a representative shoreline species, its occurrence and presence are affected by water level fluctuations. The park surveys this species` area of occurrence and stem density at selected patches."
6695,"Labour force survey estimates (LFS), by immigrant status, educational attainment, sex and age group, Canada"
3168,"The Métis Lake Observation Area is one of fifteen CFS Observation Areas. This area was created in 1950 by the Department of Northern Affairs and National Resources of the Government of Canada. The device is composed of 2 blocks. Block 1, which covers 8.4 km2, consists of 200 sample plots and block 2, which covers 3.6 km2, comprises 99. This permanent inventory device was remeasured in 1960 and 1970 In 1994, 28 sample plots were remeasured in block 1 by Université Laval and in 2003 the Canadian Forest Service measured 23 plots in the same block. Some areas were partially or totally cut in 1910, 1930, 1939 and 1942 to 1950. Partial and / or total cuts were also made from 1950 to the mid-1970s. Courses in block 1 (2002 and 2003). The information mainly covers block 1 since it was investigated in 2003 and 2008."
39,Tracks defects and bugs in systems. 
7400,Telecommunications plant price indexes (TPPI)
8378,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
3019,"Data include a collection of annual land cover maps derived from MODIS 250 m spatial resolution remotely sensed imagery for the period 2000 to 2011. Processing of the time series was designed to reduce the occurrence of false change between maps. The method was based on change updating as described in Pouliot et al. (2011, 2013). Change detection accounted for both abrupt changes such as forest harvesting and more gradual changes such as recurrent insect defoliation. To determine the new label for a pixel identified as change, an evidential reasoning approach was used to combine spectral and contextual information. The 2005 MODIS land cover of Canada at 250 m spatial resolution described in Latifovic et al. (2012) was used as the base map. It contains 39 land cover classes, which for time series development was considered too detailed and was reduced to 25 and 19 class versions. The 25 class version corresponds to the North America Land Change Monitoring System (NALCMS) Level 2 legend as described in Latifovic et al. (2012). Accuracy assessment of time series is difficult due to the need to assess many maps. For areas of change in the time series accuracy was found to be 70% based on the 25 class thematic legend."
133,The AAFC Infrastructure Flood Mapping in Saskatchewan 1 meter Bare Earth DEM are the bare earth DEMs created at a 1 m interval for the capture area of Saskatchewan. The bare earth DEM elevations were derived from a TIN surface model of the combined DTM Key Point and Ground classes in the LiDAR point cloud tiles. It should be noted that the grid point elevations have been interpolated from the LiDAR points and may contain greater uncertainty depending on the amount of interpolation performed.
10107,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
5521,"Survey of innovation, selected service industries, type of organizations with which innovative business units cooperated and collaborated in order to develop products or processes"
6064,"Book publishers, new titles published by commercial category, country of control"
9166,"Chartered banks, assets and liabilities, at month-end, Bank of Canada"
9953,"Intake water treatment in manufacturing industries, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
2863,"This file contains wholesale prices of beef by-products for the city of Toronto for the period January 1974 to August 1975. These datasets have been converted from their legacy file structures and encoding schemes so they can be used by contemporary computers that are based upon the ASCII character-encoding scheme. Each dataset will require specialized software such as a statistical tool, to interpret and analyze the content in each file. The attached codebook describes the file’s structure and defines the variables contained in each field. Each code book is a compilation of the summary description of the dataset as provided by the creating department.  As such, it is available in English only"
3815,"Correspondence and memos addressed to and responded by or for the Minister, Deputy Minster and Associate Deputy Minister of Public Services and Procurement Canada Senior Management."
9051,"Limitations and barriers to employment for adults with disabilities, by age group, Canada, provinces and territories"
10739,Plan surveillance 2016-2017 Sécurité des cabines et SST aviation.
2761,The National Justice Survey 2016 focuses on the criminal justice system (CJS) to inform the current criminal justice system review and engage with adults 18+ from across Canada.
5980,Urban transit operating statistics
8170,"Census indicator profile, Canada, provinces, territories, health regions (2011 boundaries) and peer groups"
9187,"Socioeconomic overview of the farm population, number of operators per farm by income classes in the year prior to the census and by level of educational attainment"
10241,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
7115,"Pension satellite account, pension assets at market value, by type of plan"
10377,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
6859,"National balance sheet, private non-financial corporations"
1091,The indicator represents the median duration (in days) that offenders are held in administrative segregation for reasons of: CCRA 31(3-A) JEP INST/OTH IND; and CCRA 31(3-B) INTERF W/INVEST within federal institutions.
1437,"This dataset is a collection of Traditional Ecological Knowledge (TEK) in the offshore zone for the NAFO Area 2J.  It is based on interviews with fishers.  Data was collected and mapped on the following themes; Groundfish, Pelagics, Shellfish, Marine Mammals, Special Areas.  Collected in 2012."
2193,"A full year of measurements of surface ozone over the Arctic Ocean, far removed from land, is presented (72 to 89 degrees North latitude). The data were obtained during the drift of the French schooner TARA between September 2006 and November 2007, while frozen in the Arctic Ocean. Ozone data were collected with a TEI-049 ozone monitor in a fully automated manner during the TARA drift at 10 seconds intervals. Five-minute averages of quality-controlled ambient data are archived in the Polar Data Catalogue. Data that have possibly been influenced by the ship's generator and instrument instability are filtered out. Date and time stamp (UTC) are included with averaged ozone values archived in one file.  GPS location during the drift was recorded by the Damocles project and is reported at the following location:  http://www.damocles-eu.org/research/TARA_ARCTIC_2007-2008_The_Great_Arctic_drift_54.shtml. GPS coordinates from ships’ log are provided in one data file."
5255,"Local governments, financial assets and liabilities, by province and territory"
2950,"This publication presents interpreted records from the Seismic shothole drillers' log database, and thematic geoscience digital and spatial reconstructions pertaining to massive ice, ground ice, permafrost thicknesses and areas of unfrozen ground in continental NWT and Yukon."
3816,Requesters asking for a Canadian flag that has flown on Parliament Hill. 
2830,"This file contains data from a weekly national price survey conducted in six Canadian cities: St. John’s, Charlottetown, Saint John, Regina, Yellowknife and Moncton. The data pertain to average retail prices for food products and cover the period January 1974 to December 1975. These datasets have been converted from their legacy file structures and encoding schemes so they can be used by contemporary computers that are based upon the ASCII character-encoding scheme. Each dataset will require specialized software such as a statistical tool, to interpret and analyze the content in each file. The attached codebook describes the file’s structure and defines the variables contained in each field. Each code book is a compilation of the summary description of the dataset as provided by the creating department.  As such, it is available in English only."
6094,"Neurological conditions, by age group and sex, household population aged 0 and over, 2010/2011"
9700,"General social survey (GSS), electoral participation in last federal election, by sex and age group"
6458,Footwear production
8463,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
1238,"Polygons denoting concentrations of sea pens, small and large gorgonian corals and sponges on the east coast of Canada have been identified through spatial analysis of research vessel survey by-catch data following an approach used by the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Organization (NAFO) in the Regulatory Area (NRA) on Flemish Cap and southeast Grand Banks. Kernel density analysis was used to identify high concentrations and the area occupied by successive catch weight thresholds was used to identify aggregations. These analyses were performed for each of the five biogeographic zones of eastern Canada. The largest sea pen fields were found in the Laurentian Channel as it cuts through the Gulf of St. Lawrence, while large gorgonian coral forests were found in the Eastern Arctic and on the northern Labrador continental slope. Large ball-shaped Geodia spp. sponges were located along the continental slopes north of the Grand Banks, while on the Scotian Shelf a unique population of the large barrel-shaped sponge Vazella pourtalesi was identified. The latitude and longitude marking the positions of all tows which form these and other dense aggregations are provided along with the positions of all tows which captured black coral, a non-aggregating taxon which is long-lived and vulnerable to fishing pressures.  These polygons identify sponge grounds from the broader distribution of sponges in the Southern Gulf region as sampled by Western II A gear in the Gulf biogeographic zone. A 3 kg minimum threshold for the sponge catch was identified as the weight that separated the sponge ground habitat from the broader distribution of sponges with these research vessel tow data and gear type."
7474,"Petroleum and marketable natural gas, remaining established reserves in Canada"
2033,This Excel spreadsheet document contains a data summary of interprovincial and international electricity trade data for Canadian provinces for 2014. The list needs to kept evergreen.
1509,"Harbour seals (Phoca vitulina) are found along temperate and Arctic marine coastlines of the Northern Hemisphere. They are found in coastal waters of the northern Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, as well as those of the Baltic and North Seas. In Canada, they may be found off the coastal waters of British Columbia, Nunavut, Manitoba, Ontario, Quebec, New Brunswick, Prince Edward Island, Nova Scotia, and Newfoundland and Labrador.

Population trends and abundance of harbour seals in British Columbia are assessed based on aerial surveys conducted during 1966-2016. Based on counts conducted in Index Areas distributed throughout the province, the trend observed in the Strait of Georgia appears to be indicative of harbour seal populations throughout British Columbia. Total abundance of harbour seals on the B.C. coast in 2008 was estimated to be on the order of about 105,000 (95% confidence interval of 90,900 to 118,900) seals. Historic reconstructions indicate the population was depleted by a period of commercial harvesting during 1879-1914, and subsequently maintained below natural levels by predator control programs until the early 1960s. Already depleted, the population could not sustain a second period of intense commercial harvesting during 1962-1968 and was further depleted, but now appears to have fully recovered"
6599,"Private non-profit organizations research and development intramural expenditures, by sources of funds"
5256,"Rail transportation, length of track operated for freight and passenger transportation, by province and territory"
9478,"Labour force survey estimates (LFS), employment by census metropolitan area based on 2006 census boundaries and National Occupational Classification for Statistics (NOC-S)"
6906,"Travellers to Canada from the United States by state of origin, top 15 states of origin"
9203,"Film, television and video production, industry expenditures"
119,This data set includes the following information: Project number; Lead officer; Applicant name; Province; Type of project; Project description; Status; Comments/Issues; Requested funding; Recommended funding; Approved funding CA funding. Projects are typically one year in length.
10000,"Families and Households Highlight Tables, Private households by household type, census divisions, 2011 and 2006 censuses - English version. Provides information highlights by topic via key indicators for various levels of geography."
10056,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
9224,"Alcohol dependence, by age group and sex, household population aged 12 and over, Canada, provinces, territories, health regions (January 2000 boundaries) and peer groups"
1467,Microsatellite frequencies by stock for several pacific marine species of fish.
9188,Value of established crude bitumen reserves
8107,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
6281,"Mortality and potential years of life lost, by selected causes of death and sex, three-year average, census metropolitan areas"
10231,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
7403,"How old were students when they started smoking daily, by sex and selected countries"
7197,"Historical releases of the Survey of Employment, Payrolls and Hours (SEPH), employment and average weekly earnings for all employees by detailed North American Industry Classification System (NAICS), Canada, seasonally adjusted"
4989,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
7459,"Anthropometry measures of the household population, by sex and age group"
9098,"Low income entry and exit rates of taxfilers in Canada, provinces and census metropolitan areas (CMA)"
828,Record of acquisitions made by the CNSC library
5555,Operating and financial statistics of transcontinental and regional air carriers
521,Describes the end-use quality of wheat classes surveyed from the annual harvest in Ontario
4729,"Logging industries, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
1654,Crab catches sampled from Trawl catches. Purpose: Crab research and stock assessment.
3851,"This dataset outlines the total planned investments of the Department in acquired services and projects by standard object, for the 5 fiscal years (2015-2016 to 2019-2020).   "
982,An annual publication released on CSA website with the aggregate results of the annual data collection sent out to all Canadian organizations (academic and businesses) involved in the space sector.  
4204,"Barriers to accessing specialist visits for a new illness or condition, household population aged 15 and over, Canada"
9313,"Labour force survey estimates (LFS), unemployment by type of work sought and search method, sex and age group, unadjusted for seasonality"
10271,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
4842,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
8221,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
4904,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
4435,"Travel survey of residents of Canada, travel characteristics, by province of destination"
5786,"Canadian vehicle survey, passenger-kilometres, by type of vehicle and time of day"
9191,"Student response to question: Does your family have a car, truck or van, by sex, age group and selected countries"
10168,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
10802,Information on the reclassification of occupied positions on a quarterly basis. 
1906,"Fiddler crab catch and biological data (sampled weight, specimen weight, shell width and condition, sex, claw height, state of the legs) collected by the dockside and at-sea monitoring program of commercial catches in the Gulf of St. Lawrence since 2001."
1567,"Water quality, zooplankton, phytoplankton and fish to determine sensitivity to acid precipitation. Purpose: Determine sensitivity to acid precipitation."
1892,"Spiny dogfish catch and biological data (sampled weight, length, sex) collected by the dockside monitoring program of commercial catches in the Gulf of St. Lawrence in 1994 and 1996."
10467,"This table provides statistical information about people in Canada by their demographic, social and economic characteristics as well as provide information about the housing units in which they live."
256,"The “Terrestrial Ecoregions of Canada” dataset provides representations of ecoregions. An ecoregion is a subdivision of an ecoprovince and is characterized by distinctive regional ecological factors, including climate, physiography, vegetation, soil, water, and fauna. For example, the Maritime Barrens ecoregion (no. 114) is one of nine ecoregions within the Newfoundland ecoprovince."
1278,"Atmospheric turbulence and heat exchange between the Arctic Ocean and the atmosphere in extreme (20 - 34 C) sea - air temperature differences, convection, data processed using eddy correlation method. Field measurements, some anemometer / thermometer mounted on a portable mast at 4.4 m level.
PURPOSE: Wind stress and heat flux during convection, heat loss from open leads and polynyas."
9293,"National balance sheet, total monetary authorities"
7608,"Consumer goods rental, sales by type of client based on the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
639,"
Temporary residents who are in Canada on a study permit in the observed calendar year. Datasets include study permit holders by year in which permit(s) became effective or with a valid permit in a calendar year or on December 31st. Please note that in these datasets, the figures have been suppressed or rounded to prevent the identification of individuals when the datasets are compiled and compared with other publicly available statistics. Values between 0 and 5 are shown as “--“ and all other values are rounded to the nearest multiple of 5. This may result to the sum of the figures not equating to the totals indicated."
1220,"Concentrations of sea pens, small and large gorgonian corals and sponges on the east coast of Canada have been identified through spatial analysis of research vessel survey by-catch data following an approach used by the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Organization (NAFO) in the Regulatory Area (NRA) on Flemish Cap and southeast Grand Banks. Kernel density analysis was used to identify high concentrations. These analyses were performed for each of the five biogeographic zones of eastern Canada. The largest sea pen fields were found in the Laurentian Channel as it cuts through the Gulf of St. Lawrence, while large gorgonian coral forests were found in the Eastern Arctic and on the northern Labrador continental slope. Large ball-shaped Geodia spp. sponges were located along the continental slopes north of the Grand Banks, while on the Scotian Shelf a unique population of the large barrel-shaped sponge Vazella pourtalesi was identified. The latitude and longitude marking the positions of all tows which form these and other dense aggregations are provided along with the positions of all tows which captured black coral, a non-aggregating taxon which is long-lived and vulnerable to fishing pressures."
2087,"Atmospheric deposition of stack emissions, mining operations particulates and emissions from tailings ponds has been identified as a possible significant source of both direct and indirect oil sands contaminant loadings to the Lower Athabasca River Basin, and farther afield. 

A lake paleo-coring program was established to evaluate historical contaminant levels and trends, and possible recent effects of oil sands development, through examination of lake bed cores. Specifically, the objectives/goals are to:

1. Determine the age of sediment layers in the lake bed cores and build profiles of stable metal isotopes, metal ratios, and changes in various organic compounds.

2. Assess historical deposition (including deposition rates) of selected oil sands contaminants from water-bodies within 50 km of major up-grader facilities in the OS region (near-field) and from water-bodies distant from the up-graders (far-field), and determine whether there are chemical markers of anthropogenic emissions.

3. Examine any paleo-limnological markers found in dated sediment cores to assess OS development impacts and environmental change."
5386,"Employment by major industry group, seasonally adjusted, by province (monthly)"
5559,"Postsecondary enrolments, by program type, credential type, age groups, registration status and sex"
4699,"Hours worked per week for adults with disabilities by age group, Canada, provinces and territories"
1089,The indicator represents the median days from the date of first conditional release to the start date of the first community employment assignment (based on supervised offenders available for employment with an identified intake employment need).
2397,"The Master Certification List (MCL) provides dynamic, up-to-date information on certified educational institutions across Canada. Users can gain direct access to key information on certified educational institutions, including location and contact information.
The purpose of certifying private educational institutions under Sections 118.5 and 118.6 of the Income Tax Act is to allow students, 16 years of age or older, to qualify for tuition and education tax & credits."
2993,fuel consumption ratings by year
1941,"Biometric data (length, weight, age, sex) on Iceland scallops and giant scallops collected with a dredge during DFO research surveys in the Estuary and Gulf of St. Lawrence from 1971 to 2017. The project aims to study the population dynamics of scallop beds in several regions."
9872,"Capital expenditures on intellectual property products, by type of asset, Canada, provinces and territories"
8114,"Labour statistics by business sector industry and by non-commercial activity consistent with the industry accounts, provinces and territories"
8080,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
6946,Construction union wage rate indexes
8922,"Internet use by individuals, by location of access, by province"
1984,This dataset contains the marital status of the Canadian Armed Forces members.
5138,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
6149,"Market Basket Measure (MBM) thresholds (2011 base) for reference family, by Market Basket Measure region and component, in current dollars and 2014 constant dollars"
10476,"This table provides statistical information about people in Canada by their demographic, social and economic characteristics as well as provide information about the housing units in which they live."
5482,Selected glacier mass balance in Canada
4733,"Mammogram obtained within the previous two years, by age group, women aged 50 to 69, Canada and provinces"
3081,"The Atlas of Canada National Scale Data 1:15,000,000 Series consists of boundary, coast and coastal islands, place name, railway, river, road, road ferry and waterbody data sets that were compiled to be used for atlas small scale (1:15,000,000 and 1:30,000,000) mapping. These data sets have been integrated so that their relative positions are cartographically correct. Any data outside of Canada included in the data sets is strictly to complete the context of the data."
8876,Persons in low income before tax
10783,Information on memorials and monuments located in communities across Canada. 
3521,Parks Canada Public Website content.
3236,Derrived product of Integrated Cadastral Management Data (SGB11)
7863,"Farm input price index, building and fencing"
5512,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
1651,Detailed female snow crab sampling. Purpose: Crab research and stock health.
3382,"The Conditional Release Grant Rate dataset provides information on the number of conditional releases granted/directed/continued/approved/authorized and the number of conditional releases denied/not directed/not approved/not authorized.  Decisions are sorted according to location and final decision. Items found in this dataset include, among others, jurisdiction, decision purpose, decision type, sentence type, review type, race, gender and offence type."
9583,"Software development and computer services, sales by type of client based on the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
5562,"Income and outlay account, non-residents, outlay (payments to Canada), 1968 System of National Accounts (SNA)"
9115,"Labour force survey estimates (LFS), by selected census agglomerations based on 2006 census boundaries"
10651,"This dataset is to publicly disclose, on a quarterly basis, the details of each travel (claimant name, title, purpose of travel, start date, end date, destination, airfare, other transportation, accommodation, meals and incidentals, other expenses,  and total amount) for Transport Canada."
3172,"Tree mensuration data for 230 experimental sites in genetics. 14 species are covered, the major ones being Picea glauca, Picea abies and Pinus strobus. Total number of experimental trees is in excess of 372.000 and total surface is 157 ha. Digital data are available in 2 formats: 1. Original Excel files 2. Records in the TreeSource database. Size in bytes below is for all files of format 1."
206,"Crop rotation is an agricultural production and land management practice beneficial to sustainable agriculture in Canada. Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada (AAFC) produces crop rotation data annually showing the crop rotations used within the agricultural extent of Canada for the last four complete growing seasons (based on available data). This data can be used by producers, land managers, and policy makers to assess current rotations to assist in future land management decisions.Crop rotation data is derived from AAFC's publicly-available annual crop inventory data."
7873,"Financial information of community colleges and vocational schools, revenues by type of fund"
579,"Syrian refugees who have arrived in Canada as part of the Government of Canada's commitment to resettle Syrian refugees. Datasets include Syrian refugees who have received settlement services. Please note that in these datasets, the figures have been suppressed or rounded to prevent the identification of individuals when the datasets are compiled and compared with other publicly available statistics. Values between 0 and 5 are shown as “--“ and all other values are rounded to the nearest multiple of 5. This may result to the sum of the figures not equating to the totals indicated."
2646,"The Canadian Importers Database (CID) provides summary reports and lists of companies importing goods into Canada. Users importing data in Excel using the default settings need to be aware that the HS6 and HS10 codes will, by default, be interpreted as a number and will lose the leading zero were applicable. "
10233,"The Road Network File is a digital representation of Canada's road network, containing information such as street names, types, directions and address ranges. "
4849,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
8085,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
8943,"Farms, by farm type and province (Census of Agriculture, 2001 and 2006 )"
3808,"Some transactions between a department and the Receiver Genera (RG) are handled by Internal Journal Voucher (IJV) and not via an interdepartmental settlement (IS) process (for exception only).  This dataset contains IJVs which affect a department`s control account. In turn, these IJVs must also be recorded by the department directly within their Departmental Financial and Materiel Management Systems (DFMS) during the same accounting period, in order for the control accounts to be updated in both trial balances (RG-General Ledger (RG-GL) and department) by month-end."
7481,"Labour force survey estimates (LFS), by usual hours worked, National Occupational Classification (NOC) and sex, unadjusted for seasonality"
5523,Provides a statistical overview of various geographic areas based on a number of detailed variables.
8061,"Trust and mortgage loan companies excluding bank trust and mortgage subsidiaries: quarterly statement of assets and liabilities, end of period, Bank of Canada"
4514,"Bonds outstanding, shown at par value, by currency of payments and issuers, Bank of Canada"
1237,"Polygons denoting concentrations of sea pens, small and large gorgonian corals and sponges on the east coast of Canada have been identified through spatial analysis of research vessel survey by-catch data following an approach used by the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Organization (NAFO) in the Regulatory Area (NRA) on Flemish Cap and southeast Grand Banks. Kernel density analysis was used to identify high concentrations and the area occupied by successive catch weight thresholds was used to identify aggregations. These analyses were performed for each of the five biogeographic zones of eastern Canada. The largest sea pen fields were found in the Laurentian Channel as it cuts through the Gulf of St. Lawrence, while large gorgonian coral forests were found in the Eastern Arctic and on the northern Labrador continental slope. Large ball-shaped Geodia spp. sponges were located along the continental slopes north of the Grand Banks, while on the Scotian Shelf a unique population of the large barrel-shaped sponge Vazella pourtalesi was identified. The latitude and longitude marking the positions of all tows which form these and other dense aggregations are provided along with the positions of all tows which captured black coral, a non-aggregating taxon which is long-lived and vulnerable to fishing pressures.  These polygons identify sponge grounds from the broader distribution of sponges in the Northern Gulf region as sampled by Campelen gear in the Gulf biogeographic zone. A 2 kg minimum threshold for the sponge catch was identified as the weight that separated the sponge ground habitat from the broader distribution of sponges with these research vessel tow data and gear type."
7057,"Consulting services, operating expenses, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
4076,"Loganberries, cranberries and blueberries, production and value"
7391,"Income of immigrants, by sex, landing age group, immigrant admission category, years since landing and landing year, for Alberta, 2013 constant dollars"
10347,"The Road Network File is a digital representation of Canada's road network, containing information such as street names, types, directions and address ranges. "
9757,"Major wage settlements, by major industry division"
7945,"Adult criminal courts, guilty cases by length of probation"
2384,Number and amount of benefits paid in countries with which Canada has concluded a Social Security Agreement to people who have lived or worked in another country.
7851,"Postsecondary graduates, by Pan-Canadian Standard Classification of Education (PCSCE), Classification of Instructional Programs, Primary Grouping (CIP_PG), sex and student status"
6874,"Survey of innovation, selected service industries, degree of novelty of the most innovative process"
2141,"Ground level ozone was measured at the Alert, Nunavut research station (82º28’N, 62º30’W) from January 1992 to 2010.  These measurements were conducted to: 1. determine a long term trend in background ozone, and 2. to understand the annual appearance of surface level ozone depletions that start in mid-March ( just after the time of polar sunrise) and extend into June.  Ozone depletion events have also been correlated with atmospheric mercury depletion events.  Many field studies have been carried out at Alert to unravel the reason for this phenomenon.  As a result, accurate measurements of ozone has been of crucial importance. 

O3 was measured with a commercial Thermo Environmental Instruments Model 49 instrument based on the principle of ultraviolet absorption by O3.  Calibrations were performed approximately every 2 months and were referenced to the National Institute of Standards and Technology, (NIST, Gaithersburg, Maryland, U.S.A).  Calibrations were usually within 1% of the mean calibration factor and it is estimated that the final hourly corrected O3 mixing ratios are accurate to within ± 2% or ± 1 ppb, whichever is greater."
10470,Breastfeeding practices by age group
6577,"Average weekly earnings of employees, (SEPH)"
7836,"Probability of survival at various ages, by population group and sex, Canada"
8570,"The Road Network File is a digital representation of Canada's road network, containing information such as street names, types, directions and address ranges. "
1533,Map of Canada showing locations of facilities selling nautical charts in both paper and digital formats.
6049,"Labour Force Survey estimates (LFS), employees by union status and National Occupational Classification (NOC-S), Canada"
7923,"Apartment and non-residential building construction price indexes, relative importance"
5418,"National balance sheet, market value"
9615,"International transactions in services, commercial services by industry"
6920,"Main challenges in adopting geomatics or geospatial technologies, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and enterprise size"
9136,Canadian Classification of Functions of Government (CCOFOG) by general government component
8911,"Child and spousal support, by type of beneficiary and amount due, by province and territory"
7056,"General social survey (GSS), average time spent at various locations for the population aged 15 years and over, by population cohorts"
7929,"Exposure to second-hand smoke in vehicles and public places in the past month, by age group and sex, non-smoking household population aged 12 and over, Canada, provinces, territories, health regions (June 2005 boundaries) and peer groups"
2503,"Numbers of code of conduct breaches by type, region and branch."
8699,"This table provides statistical information about people in Canada by their demographic, social and economic characteristics as well as provide information about the housing units in which they live."
4529,"Final demand categories, by commodity, M-level aggregation"
6107,Summary table. Find data on physical activity during leisure time by province and territory by year. Number of persons.STC
6334,"Canadian vehicle survey, passenger-kilometres, by type of vehicle and carrying dangerous goods"
4536,Consulting Services Price Index
5785,"Commodity imports, by volume, customs basis not seasonally adjusted"
7857,Production and shipments of asphalt roofing
1218,"Localization and contact information of DFO offices. Find, search and locate DFO offices within Canada."
9985,"Returning Canadians, Canada, provinces and territories"
9854,"National balance sheet, insurance and pension funds"
6272,"Labour force survey estimates (LFS), by sex and detailed age group, unadjusted for seasonality"
7432,"Canadian Internet use survey, Internet shopping, by type of Internet shopper and type of product and service"
4914,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
238,"The Manitoba Detailed Soil Survey dataset series at a scale of 1:100 000 consists of geo-referenced soil polygons with linkages to attribute data found in the associated Component File (CMP), Soil Names File (SNF) and Soil Layer File (SLF).  Together, these datasets describe the spatial distribution of soils and associated landscapes for nearly all agricultural areas in southern Manitoba, as well as some parts of northern and eastern Manitoba."
2308,"Time-series of annual emissions by air pollutant
i) national-level
ii) by province/territory

Linked to current catalogue entries: Air Pollutant Emission Inventory (APEI) Historical Trends (c8c75180-72e8-4177-8728-a7cab602983a) and associated data products"
6620,"Deaths, by cause, Chapter XI: Diseases of the digestive system (K00 to K93), age group and sex, Canada"
7331,"Federal expenditures on science and technology and its components, by type of science and performing sector"
2595,"Contains all formulants found in currently registered Canadian pest control products and is a guidance tool for industry in the selection of formulants. This list can be requested via InfoServe through the PMRA website. This list  is updated every 6 months. Revisions to the list may result from the following:
- New formulants will be added to the list.
- Formulants will be deleted from the list when they are no longer found in registered pest control products.
- A formulant may be reclassified as the result of new information on the formulant or as the result of formulant reassessment."
7566,"Financial flows, segregated funds of life insurance companies"
2400,Record of every financial transaction related to a Canada Student Loan (CSL) borrowers account while the borrower's account is active with the National Student Loan Service Centre. Only transactions on loans related to the Direct Lending regime are captured.
1961,Biological data on Atlantic surf clams from three sampling sites in the Magdalen Islands in 2007 and 2012.
5763,"Automotive equipment rental and leasing, summary statistics"
6609,"Manufacturing activities, by Standard Industrial Classification, 1970 (SIC)"
2849,"Since its inception in 1872, the National Archives of Canada, now Library and Archives Canada, has acquired, preserved and commemorated the cartographic heritage of Canada and there are now some two million items in the collection. This search tool provides access to approximately 40,000 item-level descriptions from the ""old map card catalogue."" The item-level descriptions are written in the language of the original map, plan, or chart; the majority of the descriptions are written in English."
1818,Set and catch data for sea cucumber research surveys in the Newfoundland Region. Purpose: Resource assessment of commercial sea cucumber populations.
9111,"Canada's official international reserves, millions of United States dollars, Bank of Canada"
9616,"Provincial gross output at basic prices in current dollars, System of National Accounts (SNA) benchmark values, by sector and North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
8765,"Mortgage loan approvals, new residential construction and existing residential properties"
8137,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
7567,"Travel survey of residents of Canada, reallocated expenditures, by travel characteristics"
6794,"Rail transportation, origin and destination of intermodal tonnage"
7935,"Two-week disability days, by age group and sex, household population, Canada and provinces"
3400,"The Conditional Release Reviews dataset provides information on the number of reviews conducted by the PBC for a given period. A review contains one or more decisions conducted on the same day for the same offender. Reviews are sorted according to location and review type. Items found in this dataset include, among others, jurisdiction, sentence type, review type, race, gender and offence type."
4221,International travellers
334,"The Science Management Solution is comprised of four modules that support the Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada, Science and Technology Branch business cycle for collecting, tracking and reporting on the project work with in the branch. The Science Management System - Monitoring and Reporting System (SMS-MRS) contains and supports project, program and portfolio data to support progress and performance reporting.  Project output can be linked to projects to support both the branches goals and objectives as well as individual scientist accomplishments.  "
4392,"Student response to question: Are you on a diet to lose weight, by sex, age group and selected countries"
3857,"The international classification system for procurement items called the United Nations Standard Products and Services Code (UNSPSC) will replace the Government of Canada’s Goods and Services Identification Numbers (GSIN) codes in 2017. This page contains an open data file mapping the UNSPSC classification system to the GSIN. The data is available in Comma Separated Values (CSV) file format and can be downloaded to sort, filter, and search information. "
7369,"Activities of Canadian majority-owned affiliates abroad, by countries"
6138,"Survey of innovation, logging and manufacturing industries, percentage of plants who introduced new or significantly improved products onto the market before competitors"
10447,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
1254,Observed Water Level data for tidal stations along the Canadian West Coast (archived data available for historical searches and research).
1563,"The National Aquaculture Public Reporting Data contains information submitted to the Department of Fisheries and Oceans by industry owners or operators as a reporting requirement under the Aquaculture Activities Regulations. Before accessing the dataset for the National Aquaculture Public Reporting Data, it is recommended to first access the Aquaculture Activities Regulations guide for important context and background information."
8480,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
3174,"A dataset of tree mensuration data from longitudinal studies of the effect of silviculture treatments (density management and fertilization) on lodgepole pine tree growth and stand development. The oldest trials data back to the 1930s, but the oldest trials still active were established in the 1950s through 1980s. "
2446,"The specific objectives of this research were:
•To test three (3) draft advertising concepts for clarity, credibility, overall impact, effectiveness in relation to call to action, as well as obtain suggestions for improvements.
•To evaluate the degree to which each concept is effective on key advertising effectiveness measures including involvement, motivation, likeability, relevance, credibility, differentiation, persuasion, confusion, and irritability.
•To select which of the three draft advertising concepts is the most effective at achieving communications objectives. "
3752,"At the end of each fiscal year, financial information is published in the Public Accounts. This dataset, based on its Volume 1, provides a comparative analysis of tangible capital assets by main custodian ministries (in thousands of dollars). Tangible capital assets are grouped in the following categories: land, buildings, works and infrastructure, machinery and equipment, vehicles, leasehold improvements, assets under construction, and assets under capital leases. This dataset is from the Public Accounts of Canada and is not the official record of information. The official version of record can be found on the Receiver General website for the most recent fiscal year and the Library and Archives website for historical years. "
7124,Supply and disposition of refined petroleum products
8323,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
9067,"Neighbourhood income and demographics, taxfilers and dependents, by sex and single years of age"
8925,"Owner households and tenant households by major payments and gross rent as a percentage of 2005 household income, by census metropolitan area (2006 Census)"
2206,Survey responses used to support the mapping of Canada's marine oil spill research ecosystem generated by Global Advantage Consulting in support of ECCC's work to design a pan-Canadian oil spill research network of expertise mandated under World Class Tanker Safety System Phase II. 
3760,"At the end of each fiscal year, financial information is published in the Public Accounts. This dataset based on its Volume 2, provides the Details of Other Transfer Payments by Ministry and Details of Other Program Expenses of Other Ministries (in thousands of dollars). This dataset is from the Public Accounts of Canada and is not the official record of information. The official version of record can be found on the Receiver General website for the most recent fiscal year and the Library and Archives website for historical years. "
1507,MS SQL Server that holds intertidal survey data for invasive species.
3155,Molecular characterization of dsRNA in Heterobasidion irregulare and Heterobasidion occidentale and effects on growth and sporulation - stored at NCBI Genbank
5561,"Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation, newly completed and unoccupied housing in census metropolitan areas, large urban centres and urban agglomerations, 1971 census area definitions"
8072,"The boundary files portray the geographic limits used for census dissemination. They are available for download in two types: cartographic and digital. Cartographic boundary files depict the geographic areas using only the shorelines of the major land mass of Canada and its coastal islands. Digital boundary files depict the full extent of the geographic areas, including the coastal water area. The files provide a framework for mapping and spatial analysis using commercially available geographic information systems (GIS) or other mapping software."
8931,"Revenues from sales of environmental goods and services, by industry"
3317,Gemini Observatory data held in the Canadian Astronomy Data Center (CADC)
3652,"The Canadian Policing Research Catalogue consolidates and makes available research material on policing conducted by academics, police services, governments and other researchers."
6296,"Average hourly earnings for hourly-paid employees, including overtime (SEPH), seasonally adjusted, for selected industries classified using the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
1029,The indicator represents the total number of Preliminary Assessment reports completed on-time per the total number of Preliminary Assessment reports that were due for the reporting period (within 5 working days of sentence commencement date).
7497,"Registered pension plan (RPP) members, by area of employment, sector, type of plan and contributory status"
10053,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
1534,"Daily sea surface temperature and salinity observations have been carried out at several locations on the coast of British Columbia since the early part of the 20th century. Observations started at the Pacific Biological Station (Departure Bay) in 1914, 11 stations were added in the mid-1930s and several more in the 1960s. The number of stations reporting at any given time has varied as sampling has been discontinued at some stations, and started or resumed at others. Presently termed the British Columbia Shore Station Oceanographic Program (BCSOP), there are 13 participating stations. Most of the stations are at lighthouses staffed by Fisheries and Oceans Canada, but three (Race Rocks, Amphitrite Point, and Active Pass) are sampled by contracted observers. This collection includes data from the Lighthouse sampling stations that are presently active or were sampled quite recently. Warning The daily sampling strategy at the BC Lighthouse Stations was designed long ago by Dr. John P. Tully. We have chosen not to change the strategy in the interests of a homogeneous data set. Sampling occurs at or near the daytime high tide. This means, for example, that if an observer starts sampling one day at 6 a.m.(local time), and continues to sample at the daytime hightide, as instructed, then on the 2nd day he/she will take samples at about 06:50 the next day, 07:40 the day after etc. When the daytime high tide gets close to 6 p.m. then it snaps back to 6 a.m. and the cycle starts again. Since there is a diurnal signal in sea-surface temperature the sampling creates a 14-day signal as an artifact."
9259,Enterprises holding or using issued patents in December 2010 that applied for patents in 2010
3555,"The Centre for Biosecurity issues a Pathogen and Toxin Licence document to organizations conducting controlled activities with human pathogens or toxins under the Human Pathogens and Toxins Act and/or importing pure cultures of terrestrial animal pathogens and toxins, with exception of non-indigenous animal pathogens and pathogens causing emerging animal disease under the Health of Animals Regulations.  This dataset includes basic licence information relating to licence type, type of work area, and licence distribution by PHAC region.  It also includes the number of licence holders and biological safety officers, as well as a sector breakdown by licence holder."
9407,"Survey of household spending (SHS), household spending on games of chance, by province and territory"
7950,"Youth courts, cases by median elapsed time in days"
8735,"This table provides statistical information about people in Canada by their demographic, social and economic characteristics as well as provide information about the housing units in which they live."
610,"Temporary residents who are in Canada on a work permit in the observed calendar year. Datasets include Temporary Foreign Worker Program (TFWP) and International Mobility Program (IMP) work permit holders by year in which permit(s) became effective. Please note that the datasets will not be updated. 

Please note that in these datasets, the figures have been suppressed or rounded to prevent the identification of individuals when the datasets are compiled and compared with other publicly available statistics. Values between 0 and 5 are shown as “--“ and all other values are rounded to the nearest multiple of 5. This may result to the sum of the figures not equating to the totals indicated."
8411,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
5361,"Population with a regular medical doctor, by age group and sex"
7160,Federal government and government sector revenue and expenditure
1328,CHS offers 500-metre bathymetric gridded data for users interested in the topography of the seafloor. This data provides seafloor depth in metres and is accessible for download as predefined areas.
6075,"Households and the environment survey, participation in outdoor activities, by type of household, Canada"
6012,"Purchasing power parities, System of National Accounts Classification (SNA), expenditure-based"
7457,"Number of cattle, by class and farm type"
9915,"Survey of innovation and business strategy, relocation of business activities from Canada to another country in the last three years, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and enterprise size, all surveyed industries"
1312,"Plankton distribution data. St. George`s Bay for 1970s and 1980s, Browns Bank and Georges Bank for 1983 to 1989.
PURPOSE: Interest in lobster larvae."
4902,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
7404,"Contact with alternative health care providers, by age group and sex, household population aged 12 and over, Canada, provinces, territories, health regions (January 2000 boundaries) and peer groups"
4342,"Residential values, by type of investment"
5925,Exports and imports of natural gas to and from the United States
5299,"Gross domestic product, income-based"
10419,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
8862,"Gross domestic product at basic prices, by industry"
2954,"The aim of the Urban and Environmental Geology of the St. Lawrence Valley project is to provide geoscience knowledge required for sound regional planning, environmental protection and sustainable development of the St. Lawrence Lowlands. The study area includes the St. Lawrence Valley and valleys of tributary rivers from Lake Ontario (Kingston) to the Gaspe peninsula. Formely available on GeoServ"
3103,"Snow and ice are important hydrological resources. Their minimum spatial extent here referred to as annual minimum snow/ice (MSI) cover, plays a very important role as an indicator of long-term changes and baseline capacity for surface water storage. The MSI probability is derived from sequence of seventeen 10-day clear-sky composites corresponding to April, 1 to September, 20 warm period for each year since 2000. Data from Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) on Terra satellite for the period since 2000 have been processed with the special technology developed at the Canada Centre for Remote Sensing (CCRS) as described in Trishchenko, 2016; Trishchenko et al., 2016; 2009, 2006, Khlopenkov and Trishchenko, 2008, Luo et al., 2008. The presence of snow or ice is determined for each pixel of the image based on snow/ice scene identification procedure and the probability if computed for the entire warm season as a ratio of number of snow/ice flags to the total number of pixels available (=< 17). The minimum snow and ice extent can be derived from the probability map by applying a certain threshold. References. Trishchenko, A.P., 2016: Probability maps of the annual minimum snow and ice (MSI) presence over April,1 to September, 20 period since 2000 derived from MODIS 250m imagery over Canada and neighbouring regions. Data format description. CCRS, NRCan. 4pp."
4962,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
1402,"Life history data. Site, species, length, date, weight, sex, age and maturity.
PURPOSE: Stock assessment."
4615,"Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation, vacancy rates, apartment structures of six units and over, privately initiated in urban centres of 10,000 to 49,999 (1992-1995)"
6773,"Capital and repair expenditures, industry sector 56, administrative and support, waste management and remediation services"
4216,"Transition home survey, one-day snapshot of women residing in shelters for reasons of abuse, Canada"
9907,"Labour force survey estimates (LFS), employment by class of worker and sex, seasonally adjusted and unadjusted"
8408,"Earnings of individuals, by selected characteristics and North American Industry Classification System (NAICS), 2011 constant dollars"
9351,"National balance sheet, total chartered banks and quasi-banks"
7348,"Personal expenditure on consumer goods and services, 1968 System of National Accounts (SNA)"
7064,Business leading indicators for Canada
1167,Aggregate of Financial and Budget requests captured in Remedy by type and by mission
9703,"Survey of household spending (SHS), household spending, Canada, regions and provinces"
10388,"Summary table. Find data on university educators teaching rank by year, including: full, associate and assistant professor. STC"
3487,"The park monitors abundance of redback salamanders in deciduous and mixed forests of Beausoleil Island. These salamanders are the most abundant vertebrate species in eastern forests, and their densities reflect condition of forest habitats. The park uses the cover board method for salamander monitoring."
10663,Highway Tank and TC Portable Tank Facilities Registered per Standard CSA B620
1060,The indicator represents the median duration (in days) that offenders are held in disciplinary segregation for reasons of: CCRA 41(1-F) DISCIPLINARY SEG within federal institutions.
2661,"The project provides quantitative estimates of the size of consumer-innovator activity, and defines the key characteristics of Canadian consumer-innovators (currently data only exists for a limited number of non-Canadian jurisdictions). The project  also examines what stimulates or inhibits consumers in the consumer-innovator process, and  profiles consumer-innovators who take unique approaches to participating in, and/or leading, the development of product innovations."
6657,"Donor rate and distribution of donations, by sex, Canada, provinces"
5124,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
467,Database of acceptable common names for fish that can be used for labeling.
1294,"This contains absorption, hplc, and turner pigments(derived from Turner Fluorometers) data from seawater samples and related variables of interest such as PI parameters and some nutrients. Wave Lengths 350-750 nanometre
PURPOSE: Study of optical properties (comparing absorption properties with Hplc pigment concentrations) in oceanic waters. Results will have practical applications in remote sensing (of chlorophyll)."
1994,Department of National Defence and Canadian Armed Forces corporate administrative direction is set out in the comprehensive collection of Defence Administrative Orders and Directives (DAOD) that are issued by or under the authority of the Deputy Minister and the Chief of the Defence Staff.  
454,"Record of stake holders' complaints and appeals related to quality of service, administrative errors and regulatory decisions."
1852,Images (digital format) of: Carcinus maenas Botryllus schlosseri Botrylloides violaceus Membranipora membranacea Caprella mutica.  
4647,"Federal government expenditures on culture, by culture activity"
5896,"Traveller accommodation, summary statistics, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
7185,"Internal migrant mobility as a proportion of total population, Canada, provinces, territories and health regions, 1996"
3989,"Income of immigrants, by sex, landing age group, immigrant admission category, period of immigration, family status and tax year, 2013 constant dollars"
2017,Data comissioned by ENVIRON to inform the development of the SSI regulatory amendments.
580,"Syrian refugees who have arrived in Canada as part of the Government of Canada's commitment to resettle Syrian refugees. Datasets include Syrian refugees who have received settlement services. Please note that in these datasets, the figures have been suppressed or rounded to prevent the identification of individuals when the datasets are compiled and compared with other publicly available statistics. Values between 0 and 5 are shown as “--“ and all other values are rounded to the nearest multiple of 5. This may result to the sum of the figures not equating to the totals indicated."
3134,Project on the dynamics of development of old stands in Côte-Nord
9419,"Survey of innovation and business strategy, strategic focus regarding organizational and management practices, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and enterprise size, all surveyed industries"
8225,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
1856,Detailed habitat/velocity and Riverbed Topography. Purpose: This data is used as input data to the River 2D software. River 2D is hydrological modelling software which is used to predict flows/depths of a river at a given discharge.
5283,Capital expenditures on pollution prevention by medium and industry
4267,"Hogs, sheep and lambs, farm and meat production"
2894,"Canada is the world’s fifth largest producer of natural gas and accounts for around five per cent of global production. Natural gas production in Canada is predominantly from the Western Canadian Sedimentary Basin in British Columbia, Alberta, and Saskatchewan, although other gas is produced from offshore Nova Scotia and smaller amounts are produced in Ontario, New Brunswick, and Nunavut. While Canadian production of conventional natural gas has been declining, production of Canadian unconventional natural gas has been rising. Development of unconventional resources like tight gas is technologically challenging and companies are increasingly using horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing to create economically viable wells. Canadian natural gas supply currently exceeds domestic consumption. Canada’s natural gas markets are heavily integrated with those of the United States and Canada exports its surplus natural gas to the U.S. while importing smaller amounts from the U.S. into Central Canada in return. While some companies have proposed exporting natural gas to overseas markets by liquefying it (liquefied natural gas or LNG), any projects that are actually built are not likely to be operational until towards the end of the decade. The National Energy Board regulates the export and import of natural gas. Export orders or licenses are required to export natural gas from Canada. Holders of export authorizations report monthly on their export activities to the Board."
5646,"Labour force survey estimates (LFS), employment by population centres and rural areas based on 2011 Census boundaries, class of worker and North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
4772,"Wages and salaries, based on the 1948 Standard Industrial Classification (SIC)"
5527,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
6755,"Balance of international payments, current account, seasonally adjusted"
5388,"Age-standardized mortality rates by selected causes, by sex"
3225,"Project for the development of a forest type adapted to the irregular boreal forest, characterizing the structure of forest stands, species composition and the health status of the trees constituting the stands_x000D_"
2128,"Gridded 25 km monthly sea ice motion in the Beaufort Sea from 1997-2014 for the months of January to December from 1997-2007 and for the months of July to October from 2008-2014. Monthly sea ice area flux for the latter time periods is available at the Beaufort Sea-Canadian Basin and Beaufort Sea-Chuckhi Sea exchange gates.  Ref: Howell, S. E. L., M. Brady, C. Derksen, and R. E. J. Kelly (2016), Recent changes in sea ice area flux through the Beaufort Sea during the summer, J. Geophys. Res. Oceans, 121, 2659–2672, doi:10.1002/2015JC011464. "
6911,"Annual non-store retail survey, commodity sales for all industries"
8367,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
3153,Molecular characterization of dsRNA in Heterobasidion irregulare and Heterobasidion occidentale and effects on growth and sporulation - stored at NCBI Genbank
4147,"Health behaviour in school-aged children 2002, student response to question: Why don't your parents have jobs?"
1738,Meristics data collected from blue hake specimens collected from foreign and domestic commercial fisheries. Purpose: Data is used in research activities conducted into this species.
1466,Fishery-dependent commercial shrimp and prawn trap fishery gridded catch and effort information.
7652,"Gross domestic product (GDP) at factor cost in 1992 constant prices, by Standard Industrial Classification, 1980 (SIC)"
2016,This dataset contains scientific data used to develop this risk management instrument and or to further understand this sector.
2640,With Financial Performance Data you can view financial data based on industry averages
10094,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
4414,"Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation, vacancy rates, apartment structures of six units and over, privately initiated in census metropolitan areas"
1043,The indicator represents the total number of Preliminary Assessment reports completed on-time per the total number of Preliminary Assessment reports that were due for the reporting period (within 5 working days of sentence commencement date).
4606,"Average weekly earnings, all employees, (SEPH), by Standard Industrial Classification, 1960 (SIC)"
10201,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
2762,Profile of Digital Published Heritage by Collection and Sub Collection
4978,"Canadian business counts, location counts without employees, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS), Canada and provinces, June 2016"
7684,"Water acquisition costs in manufacturing industries, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
10413,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
201,The Agriculture Extent of Canada derived from the AVHRR (Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer) was obtained from the GeoGratis web site (www.geogratis.ca). All polygons with an area less than 50 Km sq were eliminated by GeoGratis before we received the data. This product allows the user to see the significant areas of cropland and rangeland across Canada.
2784,"This file contains data from 1974 relating to the daily traffic flow through federally managed canals in Canada (Rideau, Trent, Carillon, Sainte-Anne de Bellevue, Saint-Ours Chambly, St. Peters and Canso). These datasets have been converted from their legacy file structures and encoding schemes so they can be used by contemporary computers that are based upon the ASCII character-encoding scheme. Each dataset will require specialized software such as a statistical tool, to interpret and analyze the content in each file. The attached codebook describes the file’s structure and defines the variables contained in each field. Each code book is a compilation of the summary description of the dataset as provided by the creating department.  As such, it is available in English only."
3162,Molecular characterization of dsRNA in Heterobasidion irregulare and Heterobasidion occidentale and effects on growth and sporulation - stored at NCBI Genbank
289,"Flight lines for the Pasqua, Crooked, Echo, and Round Lakes area within the Qu'Appelle Valley River system in Saskatchewan"
2390,"The LOC database tracks information on unions and labour organizations in Canada and offers, via the Internet, an up-to-date listing and datasets.
The LOC is based on information collected from a paper mail-out/survey sent to union/labour organizations."
7264,"Fruit and vegetable consumption, by age group and sex, household population aged 12 and over, Canada, provinces, territories and selected health regions (June 2005 boundaries)"
2893,This data is for Canadian exports only. Provincial and domestic breakdowns of this data are not available. These statistics are provided in csv format and updated every month. Data prior to 2012 is not available for confidentiality reasons.
9032,"Consumer Price Index, transportation, by province"
495,"The AIRS registration code must be submitted in the commodity details section of the declaration as per the rules in the Canada Border Services Agency (CBSA) Electronic Commerce Client Requirements Document (ECCRD), the CFIA appendix, and AIRS."
836,"The Goods and Services Tax/Harmonized Sales Tax (GST/HST) credit statistics presents data based on the information that the Canada Revenue Agency (CRA) collected and processed for all individual recipients for the 2017–2018 benefit year which covers the period from July 2017 to June 2018.  The reports contain three tables providing data by province or territory, family net income, marital status, and number of children."
6903,"Capital and repair expenditures, industry sector 61, educational services"
7659,Selected financial indexes
10721,The Continuing Airworthiness Web Information System (CAWIS) is a web based multi-faceted application that supports the Continuing Airworthiness Program in Transport Canada to monitor and enhance the safety of Canadian manufactured and/or operated aircraft in Canada.
1118,Percentage of supervisors required to be bilingual in order to carry out their duties in both official languages.
7128,"Asthma, by age group and sex, household population aged 12 and over, Canada, provinces, territories, health regions (June 2003 boundaries) and peer groups"
5936,"Currency outside banks and chartered bank deposits, monthly average, Bank of Canada"
7954,"Canadian summary characteristics of performing arts, by discipline and company size"
10504,Summary table. Find data on the educational achievement of people in Canada 15 years or older by Census year.STC
8976,"Population by sex and age group, by province and territory"
6549,"Family characteristics, by family type, family composition and family income"
3932,"Dataset used to track and report on security screening process activities and requests, including number of security clearance processed, number of screening requests, number of ID cards processes, etc.  "
3945,"Business requests for additional or new capabilities necessitating a change (growth) in the GC IT Infrastructure.  Dataset from the Business Intake Tracking System - includes business request information such as request number, IT services requested, process dates, status, priority, financials."
9399,"Canadian vehicle survey, vehicles up to 4.5 tonnes, passenger-kilometres by type of vehicle and purpose of trip (specific to vehicle type)"
10001,"Canadian Internet use survey, Internet use, by location of access, sex and age group"
3980,"Census of Agriculture, farm capital (farm machinery and equipment, livestock and poultry, land and buildings)"
10255,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
7733,"Life expectancy, at birth and at age 65, by sex, five-year average, Canada and Inuit regions"
8031,"Aboriginal peoples survey, educational attainment and labour force status, by age group and sex, Inuit population aged 15 years and over, Canada and Inuit Nunangat"
4047,Crime severity index and weighted clearance rates
4802,"Merchandise imports and exports, by major groups and principal trading areas for all countries"
4900,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
5466,"Water intake in mineral extraction and thermal-electric power generation industries, by month of intake and region"
4734,"Households and the environment survey, use of energy-saving lights, Canada, provinces and census metropolitan areas (CMA)"
8112,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
233,"The 1990, 2000 and 2010 Land Use (LU) maps cover all areas of Canada south of 600N at a spatial resolution of 30 metres. The LU classes follow the protocol of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) and consist of: Forest, Water, Cropland, Grassland, Settlement and Otherland. The 1990, 2000 and 2010 Land Use (LU) maps were developed in response to a need for explicit, high-accuracy, high-resolution land use data to meet AAFC’s commitments in international reporting, especially for the annual National Inventory Report (NIR) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), the Agri-Environmental program of the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and the FAOSTAT component of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO)."
1915,"Data from samples collected in the water column with various types of bottles (Niskin, Go-Flo or other) in eastern Canada (but mostly in the Estuary and Gulf of St. Lawrence) since 1932. Data include the temperature, salinity, pH, alkalinity, dissolved oxygen, chlorophyll, nutrients and other variables."
3828,"Provides information on the actual workforce for Public Services and Procurement Canada, it include all type of employment such as Indeterminate, Acting, Assignment."
1359,"Cruises between 1981 and 1990 to study pollock distribution, biology and abundance.
PURPOSE: Biology, stock identification, abundance and distribution of stock. Stock assessments."
2956,"Data sets consist of mine drainage chemical analyses and related hydrogeological measurements such as mine effluent discharge rates and piezometric heads. These data sets are available from: the Myra Falls mine, Vancouver Island, BC (unpublished data); the Bralorne mine, BC (data published in OF 6345); various former uranium mines in the Bancroft district of ON (data published in OF 7992)."
722,"Facts and Figures 2015: Immigration Overview Temporary Residents presents the annual intake of permit holders and refugee claimants from 1994 to 2015.
 The report also shows the total count of permit holders and refugee claimants with valid permit(s) in each calendar year and the total count of permit holders and refugee claimants as at December 31st of each year. The main body of the publication consists of a series of statistical tables and charts covering the ten-year period from 2006 to 2015.
 In Facts & Figures 2015 for Temporary Residents, numbers on International Mobility Program (IMP) Work Permit Holders for Work Purposes increased due to the moving of the Post-graduate Employment Work Permit Holders population from Work Permit Holders for Study Purposes to Work Permit Holders for Work Purposes under the International Mobility Program. As a result of this, the Facts & Figures 2015 reports reflect a corresponding decrease in the number of Work Permit Holders for Study Purposes. These changes have been applied retroactively.
 The Post-Graduation Work Permit Program (PGWPP) allows students who have graduated from a participating Canadian post-secondary institution to gain valuable Canadian work experience. Skilled Canadian work experience gained through the PGWPP potentially helps graduates qualify for permanent residence in Canada through the Canadian Experience Class (CEC). 

Facts & Figures 2013 had previously counted those who held Post-Graduation Work Permits as Work Permit Holders for Study Purposes. However, Work Permit Holders for Study Purposes is a category for individuals who are primarily students and who are also allowed to get a work permit (e.g., Co-op students) because it is integral to their course of studies. To get a PGWP, in contrast, an individual must have ceased to be a student – it is a requirement that the individual must have graduated from their program."
4976,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
1082,The indicator represents the total number of Preliminary Assessment reports completed on-time per the total number of Preliminary Assessment reports that were due for the reporting period (within 5 working days of sentence commencement date).
5150,"The Road Network File is a digital representation of Canada's road network, containing information such as street names, types, directions and address ranges. "
994, Institutional Discipline data cube is intended for the knowledgeable user and has the tools that would enable one to perform comparisons and in-depth analyses.
3669,"This dataset is a list of expenditures by major campaigns by institution. The table contains an alphabetical listing by federal institution, the name of the campaign, a description of the campaign, the media used, the creative agency used, and the amount spent for each of them."
6985,"Number of close friends, by sex, Canada and provinces, 2013"
3329,"The Decisions dataset provides information on the number of conditional release decisions taken by the PBC during a given period. Items found in this dataset include, among others, location, final decision, jurisdiction, decision purpose, sentence type, review type, race, gender and offence type."
230,"Digital Elevation Model (DEM) of a subwatershed in the La Salle watershed, north of Elie, MB. Data was derived from LiDAR and is produced at a 1 metre resolution. LiDAR data was collected using Fugro Horizons proprietary FLI-MAP Fx LiDAR system."
4150,"Engineering services, summary statistics, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
2925,"The collection consists of one digital grid of depth to basement values for the North Atlantic region, including Atlantic Canada, and digital map images based on the grid. GSCA produced the initial compilation for offshore eastern Canada from numerous international data sources, including GSCA data for the Scotian Margin, Grand Banks and Labrador. The depth to basement database shows the interpreted base of sedimentary cover, primarily in offshore areas, providing information on sedimentary basin depth, shape and distribution. Information is used by petroleum industry in exploration and by scientists studying the structure, stratigraphy and evolution of continental margins. Data set is based primarily on interpretation of seismic data collected in 30 years prior to 1990. Compilation of North Atlantic region basement depths was produced in 1995, Atlantic Canada in 1989."
9281,Refinery supply of crude oil and equivalent
46,AAFC headquarters mail services transactions and expenditures.
424,This data provides information on completed access to information requests on a monthly basis
5569,"Itinerant movements, by aircraft maximum take-off weight, airports with NAV CANADA towers"
9037,"Population 15 years and over by hours spent doing unpaid housework, by sex, by census metropolitan areas (2006 Census)"
2119,"A field campaign was carried out in 2012/13 at the Trail Valley Creek Arctic tundra research watershed near Inuvik, Northwest Territories, to evaluate and develop X- and Ku-Band radar snow water equivalent (SWE) retrieval methods. Airborne radar measurements with the European Space Agency's SnowSAR instrument were acquired over Trail Valley Creek in March and April 2013. Detailed snow surveys were conducted on the ground during all airborne sampling periods. This dataset includes calibrated airborne radar measurements, soil and meteorological measurements, and in situ snow survey data recording the variability in bulk snow properties (depth; density; SWE), and snow stratigraphic properties (layer density; grain size).   Journal papers documenting analyses of the campaign data sets are in preparation."
9698,How Canadian students feel about themselves
5672,"Smokers in 1994/95 and their smoking status in 2000/01, by age group and sex, household population aged 12 and over, Canada and provinces"
6834,"Seniors' characteristics, by family type, sex and age group"
9331,"Contact with medical doctors in the past 12 months, by age group and sex, household population aged 12 and over, Canada, provinces, territories, health regions (June 2005 boundaries) and peer groups"
3474,The park employs aerial surveys to map active beaver lodges/dams in Terra Nova. A selection of sites are ground-thruthed on foot or by canoe.
6989,"Industry price indexes for food, meat, fish and dairy products, beverages and tobacco"
5423,"Gross domestic product, income-based (quarterly)"
8942,"Consolidated provincial, territorial and local government revenue and expenditures"
6661,"Canadian business counts, locations without employees, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS), Canada and provinces, June 2015"
2688,List of the Spectrum Signature Codes used in the TAFL Frequency Data Files. NOTE:  Superseded by the SMS Spectrum Management System (SMS) Authorization Data Extract. 
5230,"Manufacturing sales, by subsector"
1712,"Information on freshwater fish species distribution records in Labrador. Information is area specific (river, lake etc.) and recorded by location name and latitude and longitude coordinates. Purpose: Used in recording and tracking freshwater fish species distribution records. Zoogeographic studies, environmental impact assessment studies, basic ecological information."
8318,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
8945,"Assets and debts held by family units, total amounts"
3296,"A comprehensive online repository of NRC-authored technical reports, conference publications, articles, corporate publications."
9000,Labour force characteristics by age and sex
3852,This dataset summarizes the Department's approved projects/investments by portfolio type.
2704, 2011 and 2012 survey data of co-operatives in Canada
841,This is the Canada Revenue Agency's publication of Corporation Income Tax Statistics. This publication provides key taxation and select accounting information for all corporation income tax returns that have been assessed or re-assessed.
221,"The “Incremental Gross Drainage Areas of the AAFC Watersheds Project - 2013” dataset is a geospatial data layer containing polygon features representing the incremental gross drainage areas of the Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada (AAFC) Watersheds Project. The Project area is subdivided by hydrometric gauging station. The maximum area that could contribute runoff to each station, less that of its upstream neighbour(s) is called an ‘incremental gross drainage area’."
9863,"Socioeconomic overview of the farm population, farm operator's level of educational attainment by age"
8103,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
7967,Canadian students additional compulsory fees by level of study
2271,"Long-term freshwater quality monitoring data for over 10 sites in the Pacific Coastal Basin for the past 15 years or longer for nutrients, metals, major ions, and other physical-chemical variables are included in this dataset. Monitoring is conducted by Environment and Climate Change Canada (ECCC) and under the Canada-British Columbia Water Quality Monitoring Agreement to assess water quality status and long-term trends, detect emerging issues, establish water quality guidelines and track the effectiveness of remedial measures and regulatory decisions."
10343,Provides information highlights by topic via key indicators for various levels of geography.
5907,Drug use by Canadian students
10023,"Positions of members of Payments Canada and Bank of Canada operations, Bank of Canada"
6316,"Remitting payroll deduction accounts, seasonally adjusted"
242,"The National Ecological Framework for Canada's ""Surface Form by Ecodistrict"" dataset contains tables that provide surface form information for components within the ecodistrict framework polygon. It provides surface form codes and their English and French-language descriptions as well as information about the percentage of the polygon that the component occupies. Surface form descriptions describe assemblages of slopes or recurring patterns of forms that occur at the earth's surface. When applied to consolidated materials (material that has been transformed to hard rock), it refers to the form produced after modification by geological processes. The mineral soil surface forms are: dissected; hummocky (irregular); inclined; level, rolling; ridged; steep; terraced; undulating. The wetland surface forms are: bog; fen; marsh; swamp."
8095,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
2997,"Statistical tables which compile various publicly available data series for trade in energy products between Canada, Mexico and the United States. These tables were developed as part of a North American trilateral cooperation on energy information between the Department of Energy of the United States of America, the Department of Natural Resources of Canada, and the Ministry of Energy of the United Mexican States. These tables are to facilitate systematic comparison between similar data series published by North American energy statistics sources such as Statistics Canada, the National Energy Board, Mexico’s Secretaría de Energía (SENER) and the United States’ Energy Information Administration (EIA). Published trade volumes have been converted to a standard unit, when necessary, for comparison purposes. Available information: * Oil data: Monthly trade volume in crude oil and other liquids including pentanes plus, propane, butane, and ethane between Canada, Mexico and the United States. * Natural gas data: Monthly trade volume in natural gas sent by pipeline, or in liquefied or compressed form between Canada and the United States. * Electricity data: Monthly and annual trade volume in electricity between Canada, Mexico and the United States. The participating Agencies and Institutions shall not be held liable for improper or incorrect use of the data described and/or contained herein. The information contained in these data is dynamic and may change over time and may differ from other official information. The Agencies and Institutions participants give no warranty, expressed or implied, as to the accuracy, reliability, or completeness of these data. For most recent data, it is recommended that users consult data series at their source."
4600,"Strong census metropolitan and census agglomeration Influenced Zones (MIZ) as a proportion of total population, Canada, provinces, territories and health regions, 1996"
210,"The Grain Elevators in Canada – 2013 dataset maps the list of grain elevators in Canada as provided by the Canadian Grain Commission (CGC).  The elevators have been located as much as possible to an actual location rather than generalizing to the station name centroid.  Additionally car spot information from CN, CP and the grain companies has been added where this has been published.This dataset attempts to provide a temporal and geographical extent of the grain elevators in Canada."
3473,"The park monitors water quality of streams and ponds (lakes) on a triennial cycle, reporting on total organic carbon, acidity, phosphorus, nitrogen, dissolved oxygen, turbidity, and Chlorophyll A. These metrics are compiled into a water quality index (WQI) that summarizes overall water quality."
2070,"Air, water, phytoplankton and zooplankton samples were collected on board the CCGS Amundsen in October 2011 as part of ArcticNet between Kugluktuk, NT and Quebec City, QC via Baffin Bay.  The samples were analysed for legacy organochlorine pesticides (OCPs), current use pesticides (CUPs), per and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) and organophosphate flame retardants and plasticizers (OPs).  The purpose of collecting air and water samples in the Canadian Archipelago was i) to continue the time trends of OCPs and CUPs, ii) to confirm the presence of PFAS observed in recent years and iii) establish baseline concentrations of OPs.  The phytoplankton and zooplankton samples investigation will allow quantification of the above compounds in the lower food web and observe how these compounds move from the abiotic to biotic environment.  
Four OPs, tri-phenyl phosphate (TPP); tris-(2-chloro ethyl) phosphate (TCEP), tris-(2-chloro propyl) phosphate (TCPP) and tris-(1,2-dichloro propyl) phosphate (TDCPP) were identified in air samples for the first time in Canadian arctic air and levels are very high compared to levels of S-PBDEs and other brominated flame retardants at Alert (Xiao et al., 2012).  Due to these findings, archive samples from Alert and previous ArcticNet cruises were also analysed for OPs, thus establishing baseline concentrations in Canadian arctic air in which future trends can be compared."
406,"The Drought Impact Label dataset is used on all drought polygons from D1 to D4 to specify the longitude and magnitude of impacts. Impact labels are often used in association with the Drought Impact Line dataset. The impact labels are classified as follows: S – Short-Term, typically less than 6 months. L – Long-Term, typically more than 6 months. SL – A combination of Short and Long-Term impacts."
10555,"This data presents population counts by Tenure for the Federal Public Service (i.e. all departments and agencies governed by the Financial Administration Act (FAA) Schedules I, IV and V)."
2369,"The Air Pollutant Emission Inventory (APEI) is an annual report of air pollutant emissions across Canada published by Environment and Climate Change Canada. The report details the release of air pollutants from all known of sources since 1990. The APEI serves many purposes, including:

-supporting the development of air quality management strategies, policies and regulations.
-fulfilling Canada’s domestic and international reporting obligations.
-informing Canadians about pollutants that affect their health and the environment.
-providing data to support air quality forecasting.

Emissions data is available for the following 17 air pollutants for the years 1990-2014:

Criteria air contaminants (CACs):
-Total particulate matter (TPM)
-Particulate matter less than or equal to 10 microns (PM10)
-Particulate matter less than or equal to 2.5 microns (PM2.5)
-Sulphur oxides (SOx)
-Nitrogen oxides (NOx)
-Volatile organic compounds (VOCs)
-Carbon monoxide (CO)
-Ammonia (NH3)

Heavy metals: 
-Mercury (Hg)
-Lead (Pb)
-Cadmium (Cd)

Persistent organic pollutants (POPs): 
-Dioxins and furans (D/F)
-Four polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) compounds (Benzo[a]pyrene, Benzo[b]fluoranthene, Benzo[k]fluoranthene and Indeno[1,2,3-cd]pyrene)
-Hexachlorobenzene (HCB)

This data record breaks down the 1998 emissions of all reported pollutants for Canada by province and territory. To view historical trends of individual substances, please visit the Air Pollutant Emission Inventory Historical Trends data record. To perform more customized selections of APEI data, please visit our website to use our interactive query tool.

The Air Pollutant Emission Inventory is compiled from many different data sources. Emissions data reported by individual facilities to Environment and Climate Change Canada’s National Pollutant Release Inventory are supplemented with well documented, science-based estimation tools to quantify total emissions. Together these data sources provide a comprehensive overview of pollutant emissions across Canada."
1180,"Catch, effort, location (latitude, longitude), relative abundance indices, and associated biological data from groundfish multi-species bottom trawl surveys in West Coast Haida Gwaii. Introduction - The West Coast Haida Gwaii (WCHG) synoptic bottom trawl survey was first conducted annually from 2006 to 2008 and has since been repeated every second year on even numbered years. This survey is one of a set of long-term and coordinated surveys that together cover the continental shelf and upper slope of most of the British Columbia coast. The other surveys are the Queen Charlotte Sound (QCS) survey, the Hecate Strait (HS) survey, the West Coast Vancouver Island (WCVI) survey, and the Strait of Georgia (SOG) survey. The objectives of these surveys are to provide fishery independent abundance indices of all demersal fish species available to bottom trawling and to collect biological samples of selected species. The survey follows a random depth-stratified design and the sampling units are 2 km by 2 km blocks. The synoptic bottom trawl surveys are conducted by Fisheries and Oceans Canada (DFO) in collaboration with the Canadian Groundfish Research and Conservation Society (CGRCS), a non-profit society composed of participants in the British Columbia commercial groundfish trawl fishery. The Queen Charlotte Sound and West Coast Haida Gwaii surveys are conducted under collaborative agreements, with the CGRCS providing chartered commercial fishing vessels and field technicians, while DFO provides in-kind contributions for running the surveys including personnel and equipment. The Hecate Strait, West Coast Vancouver Island, and Strait of Georgia surveys are conducted by DFO and have typically taken place on the Canadian Coast Guard research vessel W.E. Ricker. In years when the W.E. Ricker has not been available, the Hecate Strait and West Coast Vancouver Island surveys have taken place on chartered industry vessels. Effort - This table contains information about the survey trips and fishing events (trawl tows/sets) that are part of this survey series. Trip-level information includes the year the survey took place, a unique trip identifier, the vessel that conducted the survey, and the trip start and end dates (the dates the vessel was away from the dock conducting the survey). Set-level information includes the date, time, location, and depth that fishing took place, as well as information that can be used to calculate fishing effort (duration) and swept area. All successful fishing events are included, regardless of what was caught. Catch - This table contains the catch information from successful fishing events. Catches are identified to species or to the lowest taxonomic level possible. Most catches are weighed, but some are too small (“trace” amounts) or too large (e.g. very large Big Skate). The unique trip identifier and set number are included so that catches can be related to the fishing event information (including capture location). Biology - This table contains the available biological data for catches which were sampled. Data may include any or all of length, sex, weight, age. Different length types are measured depending on the species. Age structures are collected when possible for species where validated aging methods exist and are archived until required for an assessment; therefore, all existing structures have not been aged at this time. The unique trip identifier and set number are included so that samples can be related to the fishing event and catch information. Biomass - This table contains relative biomass indices of species that have been captured in every survey of the time series. The coefficient of variation and bootstrapped 95% confidence intervals are provided for each index. The report on the 2012 Strait of Georgia Survey (King et al. 2013) provides an explanation of how the relative indices are derived. Note that we do not calculate a biomass index for the 2014 West Coast Haida Gwaii survey, as this survey was incomplete due to operational problems."
1899,"Whelk catch and biological data (sampled weight, shell height, sex) collected by the dockside monitoring program of commercial catches in the Estuary and Gulf of St. Lawrence since 1987."
1869,Catch data of American lobsters of all sizes collected on 50m long transects on a nursery ground in the Magdalen Islands since 1995.
6298,"Industrial product price indexes, by industry and industry group"
7824,Exchange rates
2090,This database contains detailed information on various sorbents (materials used to absorb chemicals) with a particular emphasis on the compunds abilities to absorb oil from tanker spills.
10222,Provides a statistical overview of various geographic areas based on a number of detailed variables.
7188,"Sheep statistics, supply and disposition of sheep and lambs"
6428,"Births, by sex, Canada, provinces and territories"
5410,"Business credit outstanding, by supplier type and North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
1540,"Atlantic Salmon biological sampling from various projects in both the marine and freshwater environment. This includes samples in earlier years (1967-79) from various maritime, U.S., W. Greenland rivers. In more recent years samples from the marine caught salmon. Purpose: Stock assessment/research papers."
10517,"This statistical table illustrates the number of pensions that became payable to survivors, including spouses/common-law partners, children and students. The statistical table also illustrates the total dollar amount of pensions paid to survivors and the average pension amount for spouses/common-law partners and children/students. All amounts include indexation."
5954,Receipts and disposition of natural gas utilities
10021,"Supply and disposition of principal grains, by crop year, Canada"
7032,"Couriers and local messengers industry, revenue and expenditures"
2131,"This dataset is a collection of concurrent in-situ precipitation measurements made by various instrument configurations and includes reference precipitation measurements made with an automated gauge inside a Double Fence Intercomparison Reference wind fence.  The intercomparison period for both sites officially occured over the 2013/2014 and 2014/2015 winters.  Data is currently archived by NCAR and will be available by request through the WMO Commission for Instruments and Methods of Observations (CIMO) (http://www.wmo.int/pages/prog/www/IMOP/intercomparisons/SPICE/SPICE.html).  Reference: Nitu, R. et al., 2012: WMO intercomparison of instruments and methods for the measurement of solid precipitation and snow on the ground: organization of the experiment, WMO Technical Conference on meteorological and environmental instruments and methods of observations, 16–18, Brussels, Belgium. "
4032,"Income of immigrants, by sex, landing age group, immigrant admission category, period of immigration, family status and tax year, for the Atlantic provinces, 2013 constant dollars"
5071,"Canada's international investment position, year ends, capital abroad controlled from Canada, by industry"
7050,"Survey of innovation and business strategy, frequency of review of key production performance indicators by top or middle managers, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and enterprise size, all surveyed industries"
4040,"Average total income of farm families by farm type, unincorporated sector"
3222,Raw digital data and digital hemispherical photographs for the measurement of light transmitted under cover before and after partial cutting. Files stored by plots.
852,"Charts showing the income that is received for Child Benefits, Child Disability benefits and supplements for the Child's Special Allowances from July 2006-June 2007 to July 2014-June 2015. "
1478,Estimates of salmon catches and escapements from all salmon assessment and salmon fishery monitoring projects on the Taku River.
5343,Bank of Canada note liabilites
10463,"The Population Centre Boundary Files portray the population centre boundaries for which census data are disseminated. They are available for download in two types: cartographic and digital. Cartographic boundary files depict the geographic areas using only the shorelines of the major land mass of Canada and its coastal islands. Digital boundary files depict the full extent of the geographic areas, including the coastal water area. The files provide a framework for mapping and spatial analysis using commercially available geographic information systems (GIS) or other mapping software."
9958,"Aboriginal peoples survey, long-term health problems (self-reported) by Aboriginal identity, age group and sex, population aged 12 years and over, Canada, provinces and territories"
1997,"This dataset list the total number of military and civilian personnel from 2001-2016. The dataset is separated in the following categories: gender, regular forces, reserve forces, officer and non-commissioned member (NCM)."
6526,"Water intake in mineral extraction and thermal-electric power generation industries, by source and region"
5492,"Households and the environment survey, dwelling's main source of water, Canada, provinces and census metropolitan areas (CMA)"
5554,"Private elementary and secondary schools revenues, by direct source of funds"
3582,Not Available
3414,"The Conditional Release Special Conditions dataset provides information on the number of special conditions imposed by the PBC in a given period. The information is sorted according to location and category of decision. Items found in this dataset include, among others, jurisdiction, sentence type, review type, condition type, race, gender and offence type."
8211,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
167,"The Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada’s LiDAR Projects dataset was created from existing spatial data. It contains the footprints (outlines) of all the LiDAR data that is openly distributed by Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada.LiDAR (Light Detection And Ranging) is a method of acquiring survey points using optical remote sensing technology.The dataset indicates basic information about the location, source and properties of the data."
10544,"This data provides consolidated information about when the corporate plan summaries, budget summaries, and annual reports of Crown corporations are due to be tabled in Parliament, and the dates on which these documents were actually tabled pursuant to section 151 of the Financial Administration Act (FAA)."
3199,The whole of the SBW larvae harvested are put in individual rearing. A diagnosis of the causes of death is made.
3034,"he Canadian Railway Network - 1:50 000 comes from the Transport theme of CanVec product. It focuses on providing a quality geometric description and a set of basic attributes on Canadian railways, seamlessly across Canada.
The Canadian Railway Network is a multi-source product coming mainly from the GeoBase initiative. It contains quality geospatial data (current, accurate, and consistent) of Canadian railway phenomena (including ferry connection for the purpose of railway network continuity).The Canadian Railway Network offers quality topographical information in vector format that comply with international geomatics standards."
7756,"Building permits, non-residential values by type of structure"
4301,"Survey of innovation, selected service industries, percentage of business units using methods to protect their intellectual property"
4010,"Business enterprise intramural research and development expenditures, by performing company employment size"
8236,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
2948,"PALYNODATA is the Geological Survey of Canada's Oracle-based version of the PALYNODATA database, an exhaustive database of pre-Quaternary palynological information compiled by PALYNODATA Inc., an organization created under a consortium that included several oil companies and the GSC. Membership in the consortium was on a subscription basis and the database was exclusive to members of the consortium. The GSC played a relatively passive role, but had a fundamental role in the early days of the consortium's over 30 year history. The amalgamation of oil companies and decline in supporting subscriptions led to the dissolution of PALYNODATA Inc. in 2007. To maintain accessibility of the PALYNODATA database, the GSC agreed to take over, house and provide public access to the database. The PALYNODATA database is the largest database of its kind in the world. The data is the result of abstracting from over 22,000 publications, and includes biostratigraphic, taxonomic, bibliographic and paleogeographic information. It has over a million individual records from over 122,000 different taxa (genera, species, etc). It was been published as Open FIle 5793 in 2008 and is no longer updated. "
226,"The Census of Agriculture is disseminated by Statistics Canada's standard geographic units (boundaries). Since these census units do not reflect or correspond with biophysical landscape units (such as ecological regions, soil landscapes or drainage areas), Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada in collaboration with Statistics Canada's Agriculture Division, have developed a process for interpolating (reallocating or proportioning) Census of Agriculture information from census polygon-based units to biophysical polygon-based units. In the “Interpolated census of agriculture”, suppression confidentiality procedures were applied by Statistics Canada to the custom tabulations to prevent the possibility of associating statistical data with any specific identifiable agricultural operation or individual. Confidentiality flags are denoted where ""-1"" appears in data cell. This indicates information has been suppressed by Statistics Canada to protect confidentiality. Null values/cells simply indicate no data is reported."
5206,"This table provides statistical information about people in Canada by their demographic, social and economic characteristics as well as provide information about the housing units in which they live."
5303,Summary table. Find data on car accidents causing death for Canada by year. Both sexes number.STC
10092,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
1096,The indicator represents the total number of Preliminary Assessment reports completed on-time per the total number of Preliminary Assessment reports that were due for the reporting period (within 5 working days of sentence commencement date).
5298,Private non-profit organizations' in-house research and development expenditures and personnel types by province or territory
3088,"The Northern Canada geodatabase contains a selection of the data from the Atlas of Canada Reference Map - Northern Canada / Nord du Canada (MCR 36). The geodatabase is comprised of two feature data sets (annotation and geometry), and the shaded relief. The annotation feature dataset comprises the annotation feature classes. All annotation feature classes were derived for MCR 36 and all text placements are based on the font type and size used for the reference map. The geometry feature dataset is comprised of data for: boundaries, roads, railways, airports, seaplane bases, ports, populated places, rivers, lakes, mines, oil/natural gas fields, hydroelectric generating stations, federal protected areas, ice shelves, permanent polar sea ice limit and the treeline. The geodatabase can be downloaded as feature data sets or as shapefiles."
3683,"The Department of Public Services and Procurement Canada, in its role as Receiver General for Canada, is responsible for the management and safeguarding of all federal government money. The Receiver General uses a centralized banking system (Government Banking System or GBS) to record the inflow of funds. Data is stored in the GBS detailing the dates and amounts for deposits made to financial institutions. This dataset, entitled “Deposits to Financial Institutions”, provides details extracted from the Government Banking System of all deposits made to Financial Institutions and their subsequent receipt at the Bank of Canada.
Updates will be posted quarterly."
2606,"This dataset provides the results obtained by Health Canada’s Canadian Radiological Monitoring Network (CRMN) for radioactivity content in precipitation samples from monitoring stations across Canada. Samples are collected monthly and analysis is performed when required, to either augment surveillance in response to a nuclear/radiological event, or to corroborate detection from another surveillance modality."
7560,"Distribution of the school-age population (aged 5 to 24), by age group and work activity of parents, Canada, provinces and territories"
10619,The location of fire stations across Canada.
1640,"The survey consisted of personal interviews with selected commercial salmon fishers in insular Newfoundland to solicit their participation in the survey. They were given data recording sheets to fill out on a daily basis. Telephone calls were made to the fishers at the beginning of each week during the fishing season, to obtain their catch and effort information. Community codes are from Waldron DATA REPORT NEW/D-74-2. The dataset contains information such as community, licensed gear, number of fishing berths, date (day, month and year), gear type, amount of gear fished, comments on fishing conditions, comments on any fish discarded, catch of small and large salmon (weight and numbers), and how the catch was disposed of (e.g. Plant, buyer, or local sales). Purpose: Data were used to examine the actual amount of effort (as opposed to potential effort) expended in the commercial salmon fishery and factors affecting the expenditure of effort; validation of local sales catch estimates."
3306,Astronomical data from the MACHO project held in the Canadian Astronomy Data Center (CADC)
9563,"Final demand categories, by commodity, L-level aggregation"
7569,"Canada's official international reserves, millions of United States dollars, Bank of Canada"
7288,"Employee training related to the adoption of advanced technologies between 2012 and 2014, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and enterprise size"
10540,"This statistical table illustrates the number of pensions and survivor pensions in pay. The ‘Pensions’ column includes immediate annuities, disability retirement benefits, and annual allowances payable to former contributors. The ‘Survivor Pensions’ column includes spouse or common-law partners, children, and students. "
382,"The National Ecological Framework for Canada's ""Land and Water Area by Province/Territory and Ecoregion” dataset provides land and water area values by province or territory for the Ecoregion framework polygon, in hectares. It includes codes and their English and French descriptions for a polygon’s province or territory, total area, land-only area and large water body area."
2140,"A data collection of separate data sets for each data gathering initiative under the CMP. Data is collected under CEPA or via calls for voluntary data. Data submitted frequently includes data claimed as confidential business information (CBI), so these data sets are Protected B.  Public (non-confidential) versions of these data sets in which the confidential information has been removed or masked are being produced moving forward, and therefore ""Eligibility"" is set to ""yes"", although additional work is required to produce these public versions (addressing the Protected B data). Note that the language is ""as submitted"" (i.e. either English or French, but not bilingual except where values are pre-set selections)."
3485,"Abundance and diversity of frogs and toads is a good indicator for assessing ecological integrity. The park visually counts adult frogs and toads in coastal wetlands after the breeding season. This method does not permit assessment of early breeding species and may overestimate frog abundance because these surveys coincide with mass emergence of newly developed frogs, which are subjected to very high mortality rates."
10311,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
8113,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
377,"The National Ecological Framework for Canada's ""Land Cover by Ecozone” dataset provides land cover information within the ecozone framework polygon. It provides landcover codes and their English and French language description as well as information about the percentage of the polygon that the component occupies."
2004,Citation information for scientific and techincal articles published between 2012-2015 authored or co-authored by Defence Research and Development Canada scientist.
1554,"Fish health on British Columbia salmon farms is managed throughout the production cycle to maintain healthy fish populations and to identify and address disease occurrences as soon as they arise. Aquaculture licence conditions set out mandatory monitoring and reporting requirements to ensure any impacts are appropriately mitigated at salmon farms. A central component of on-farm fish health management is a Fish Health Management Plan (FHMP). FHMPs are approved by Fisheries and Oceans Canada (DFO) and describe the fish health principles that the licensee must follow to maintain fish health and biosecurity at the farm. Licence holders must routinely submit a variety of fish health data to DFO. Routine reports include information on mortality rates, including the suspected cause of mortality. Additional reports are submitted if there are elevated mortalities or a fish health event that requires the involvement of a veterinarian. Both DFO and aquaculture companies have veterinarians on staff (or available on contract, for some companies) to monitor fish health on farms. Company veterinarians ensure appropriate husbandry in day-to-day operations and identify appropriate management measures if fish health concerns arise. Through the Fish Health Audit and Surveillance program, DFO oversees the health of cultured salmon to minimize fish health and disease risks to wild and farmed fish and publishes reports on regulation and monitoring of BC’s marine finfish aquaculture facilities. Sites are routinely inspected to ensure compliance with FHMPs, to verify the accuracy of industry reporting, and to collect samples for routine diagnostic disease screening. All salmon aquaculture transfers require authorization under section 56 of the Fishery (General) Regulations. Movements of fish to and from farms may be required to introduce new stock, facilitate growth at different life stages or optimize production. DFO reviews these applications to determine whether the movement may adversely affect local aquatic species and habitats. DFO veterinarians and biologists assess the information gathered by DFO and submitted by industry to gain a complete picture of the health status of the fish to be moved. For hatchery to marine transfers, this assessment also includes an in-depth records review and on-site inspection of the fish. If this assessment indicates that a pathogen or disease is affecting the fish to be transferred, DFO may place restrictions on the movement and/or prescribe additional conditions to mitigate any risk of disease transmission, such as grading to remove undersized fish, the use of pre-transfer medications, or additional post-transfer health testing. If no mitigation measure can be identified, the application will be denied."
3030,"The Canadian Digital Elevation Model (CDEM) is part of Natural Resources Canada's altimetry system designed to better meet the users' needs for elevation data and products. The CDEM stems from the existing Canadian Digital Elevation Data (CDED). In these data, elevations can be either ground or reflective surface elevations. A CDEM mosaic can be obtained for a pre-defined or user-defined extent. The coverage and resolution of a mosaic varies according to latitude and to the extent of the requested area. Derived products such as slope, shaded relief and colour shaded relief maps can also be generated on demand."
7087,Vegetables in cold and common storage
8787,"Perceived health, by age group and sex"
1334,"A survey using stratified random design with day/night replication targeting deep sea redfish. Data collected includes bycatch, hydro, morphometrics, length, and weight. Database components: Fishing event, catch, and sampling data.
PURPOSE: In support of stock assessment and management."
9025,"Exchange rates, interest rates, money supply and stock prices"
8899,Days lost per worker by industry and sex
6839,"Influenza immunization, by age group and sex, household population aged 12 and over, Canada, provinces, territories and selected health regions (January 2000 boundaries)"
6382,"Survey of innovation, logging and manufacturing industries, percentage of plants who introduced new or significantly improved products onto the market that were already available from competitors"
7696,"Survey of innovation, selected service industries, percentage of business units that carried out any geomatics activities"
9370,"Canadian vehicle survey, vehicle-kilometres, by type of vehicle and carrying dangerous goods"
7070,"Labour force survey estimates (LFS), by full- and part-time students during school months, sex and age group, unadjusted for seasonality"
6926,Benefit payments of all life insurance companies
5231,"Census families on farms, by family size, by province, (2001 and 2006 Census of Agriculture and Census of Population)"
6747,"Industrial product price index, by North American Product Classification System (NAPCS)"
3675,"The dataset will contain Utility consumption data (Electricity, Natural Gas, Heating ) for different Public Services and Procurement Canada buildings.   The dataset will include data from 2011-2014."
7455,"Distribution of the population aged 25 to 64 (total and with Aboriginal identity), by highest certificate, diploma or degree and age group, Canada, provinces and territories"
9355,"Survey of innovation and business strategy, enterprises with more than one profit centre, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and enterprise size, all surveyed industries"
8621,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
2799,"This file contains data collected in 1975 relating to the status of New Horizons project groups which received grants prior to July 1974. These datasets have been converted from their legacy file structures and encoding schemes so they can be used by contemporary computers that are based upon the ASCII character-encoding scheme. Each dataset will require specialized software such as a statistical tool, to interpret and analyze the content in each file. The attached codebook describes the file’s structure and defines the variables contained in each field. Each code book is a compilation of the summary description of the dataset as provided by the creating department. As such, it is available in English only."
2250,"A database of verified tornado occurrences across Canada has been created covering the 30-year period from 1980 to 2009. The data are stored in a Microsoft Excel spreadsheet, including fields for date, time, location, Fujita Rating (intensity), path information, fatalities, injuries, and damage costs. In cases where no data were available, values in the database have been left blank. The tornado data have undergone a number of quality control checks and represent the most current knowledge of past tornado events over the period. However, updates may be made to the database as new or more accurate information becomes available. The database has also been used to produce PNG images and an interactive KML file that can be viewed using Google Earth."
2904,"Canada is the world’s fifth largest producer of natural gas and accounts for around five per cent of global production. Natural gas production in Canada is predominantly from the Western Canadian Sedimentary Basin in British Columbia, Alberta, and Saskatchewan, although other gas is produced from offshore Nova Scotia and smaller amounts are produced in Ontario, New Brunswick, and Nunavut. While Canadian production of conventional natural gas has been declining, production of Canadian unconventional natural gas has been rising. Development of unconventional resources like tight gas is technologically challenging and companies are increasingly using horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing to create economically viable wells. Canadian natural gas supply currently exceeds domestic consumption. Canada’s natural gas markets are heavily integrated with those of the United States and Canada exports its surplus natural gas to the U.S. while importing smaller amounts from the U.S. into Central Canada in return. While some companies have proposed exporting natural gas to overseas markets by liquefying it (liquefied natural gas or LNG), any projects that are actually built are not likely to be operational until towards the end of the decade. The National Energy Board regulates the export and import of natural gas. Export orders or licenses are required to export natural gas from Canada. Holders of export authorizations report monthly on their export activities to the Board."
2009,"Canadian Armed Forces (CAF) Food Services provides cost efficient and effective food services that support military activities and that meet client expectations of quality, choice, value, nutrition, and service. The Canadian Armed Forces Food Services exist to provide food services to Department of National Defence funded customers. This dataset shows the total yearly quantity of the purchased food from suppliers by Canadian Armed Forces Food Services at the national level. It includes ship and mobile kitchen purchases (domestic and foreign) but excludes catering."
10521,"This data presents population counts by first official language for the Federal Public Service (i.e. all departments and agencies governed by the Financial Administration Act (FAA) Schedules I, IV and V)."
1201,"A list of current and historical commercial fishing licences issued by Fisheries and Oceans Canada, Pacific Region."
7359,"National graduates survey, estimated gross annual earnings of graduates working full-time, by province of study, level of study and sex"
3142,Forest insect and disease survey data from FIDS (Forest Insect & Disease Survey)
7897,"Value per acre of farm land and buildings, at July 1"
2934,Each date is a radiocarbon age determined from Geological Survey of Canada (Atlantic and Pacific - Sidney) sediment samples.    Most were analyzed by commercial labs such as Beta and Isotrace although some from the GSC Radiocarbon Lab in Ottawa.  The data set includes all analytical details and information on the material dated. No assessment of the reliability or significance of the dates is provided.
3824,"At year end, if there are errors or omissions in departmental trial balance data that have a material impact after accounting period 14, Central and Public Accounts Reporting Directorate (CPARD) staff will proceed with correcting entries. As a result, this dataset contains those entries that are handled by internal Journal Voucher (IJV) in order to be reflected in the General-General Ledger (RG-GL)."
8734,"This table provides statistical information about people in Canada by their demographic, social and economic characteristics as well as provide information about the housing units in which they live."
9581,"Historical releases of quarterly statement of changes in financial position, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS), selected financial ratios and selected seasonally adjusted components"
3412,"The Conditional Release Reviews dataset provides information on the number of reviews conducted by the PBC for a given period. A review contains one or more decisions conducted on the same day for the same offender. Reviews are sorted according to location and review type. Items found in this dataset include, among others, jurisdiction, sentence type, review type, race, gender and offence type."
8682,"This table provides statistical information about people in Canada by their demographic, social and economic characteristics as well as provide information about the housing units in which they live."
1235,The Production Plan lists target transfer and release numbers of juvenile salmon from Salmonid Enhancement Program facilities in British Columbia by brood year. These targets result from a production planning process that operates within the consultative framework of an integrated harvest planning process.
6482,"National balance sheet, segregated funds of life insurance companies"
9303,"Canadian Community Health Survey (CCHS 3.1) indicator profile, by sex, Canada, provinces, territories, census metropolitan areas and influence zones"
6303,"Distribution of the household population by chronic diseases, by sex and age group"
1379,"Data relating to the reproductive potential of broodstock for research.
PURPOSE: To monitor reproductive potential of broodstock for research."
9212,Consumer bankruptcies
9943,"Language Highlight Tables, Population by mother tongue and age groups, census divisions, 2011 census - English version. Provides information highlights by topic via key indicators for various levels of geography."
6476,"Travel survey of residents of Canada, domestic trips, expenditures and nights, in Canada, by traveller characteristics and trip duration"
4860,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
10477,"This table provides statistical information about people in Canada by their demographic, social and economic characteristics as well as provide information about the housing units in which they live."
9680,"Canadian monthly natural gas distribution, Canada and provinces"
3615,Not Available
8074,"The boundary files portray the geographic limits used for census dissemination. They are available for download in two types: cartographic and digital. Cartographic boundary files depict the geographic areas using only the shorelines of the major land mass of Canada and its coastal islands. Digital boundary files depict the full extent of the geographic areas, including the coastal water area. The files provide a framework for mapping and spatial analysis using commercially available geographic information systems (GIS) or other mapping software."
3898,"This dataset represents the number of cheques received via the banking system, the value of the reconciled items by financial institutions (recognized and member of the Canadian Payment Association), following the redemption of cheques issued by the Receiver General. "
4383,"National balance sheet, social security funds"
4130,"Labour force survey estimates (LFS), by educational attainment, sex and age group"
3328,"The Decisions dataset provides information on the number of conditional release decisions taken by the PBC during a given period. Items found in this dataset include, among others, location, final decision, jurisdiction, decision purpose, sentence type, review type, race, gender and offence type."
10519,"This statistical table illustrates the number of unreduced pensions (i.e. immediate annuities - excluding those resulting from disability retirement) by age at retirement, the average age of retirement and the average dollar amount of the unreduced pension. The data illustrated for ‘Pensions at Age 50-54 at Retirement’ include only eligible Correctional Service Canada operational employees who qualify for an unreduced pension. The data illustrated for ‘Pensions at Age 60 at Retirement’ exclude deferred annuities that became payable at age 60. "
5315,"Historical statistics, residence and birth places of native-born internal migrants, natural increase and net migration"
2819,"This file contains data collected in 1977 during a national drinking survey. These datasets have been converted from their legacy file structures and encoding schemes so they can be used by contemporary computers that are based upon the ASCII character-encoding scheme. Each dataset will require specialized software such as a statistical tool, to interpret and analyze the content in each file. The attached codebook describes the file’s structure and defines the variables contained in each field. Each code book is a compilation of the summary description of the dataset as provided by the creating department.  As such, it is available in English only."
3718,"At the end of each fiscal year, financial information is published in the Public Accounts. This dataset, based on its Volume 1, provides a ten year comparative of the financial position of consolidated Crown corporations and other entities (in thousands of dollars). It summarizes the financial transactions as reported by the consolidated Crown corporations and other entities. This dataset is from the Public Accounts of Canada and is not the official record of information. The official version of record can be found on the Receiver General website for the most recent fiscal year and the Library and Archives website for historical years. "
7307,"Capital finance account, non-residents, source, 1968 System of National Accounts (SNA)"
10216,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
5107,"Language Highlight Tables, Population by Aboriginal mother tongue, Aboriginal language spoken most often at home and Aboriginal language spoken on a regular basis at home, for Canada, provinces and territories, 2011 census - English version. Provides information highlights by topic via key indicators for various levels of geography."
5666,"Canadian vehicle survey, vehicle-kilometres, by type of vehicle and type of day"
10295,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
8348,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
48,Canadian Agriculture Library catalogue of items in the library collection.  This catalogue is maintained with the integrated library system (Sierra).
3754,"At the end of each fiscal year, financial information is published in the Public Accounts. This dataset lists the outstanding guarantees. The authorized limits indicated represent the aggregate total of various types of authorities of Government bodies as stipulated in legislation, legal agreements or other documents that may be in force at any one time."
5509,Dietary habits of students in selected countries
4425,"Canadian passenger bus and urban transit industries, revenue and expenses, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
4406,"Total water costs in manufacturing industries, by water cost component and North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
3665,"This dataset  provides the percentages of expenditures that was attributed to the purchase of media types divided among the four major media types (radio, out-of-home, print, internet, television) over a five year period by the Government of Canada."
2709,"The Competition Bureau’s Quarterly Report presents statistics relating to a variety of intake measures, merger and non‑merger related enforcement matters, as well as advocacy, outreach and partnership initiatives. The Report sets out the general performance results each quarter for the Bureau. "
6156,"Labour force survey estimates (LFS), employment by economic region and North American Industry Classification System (NAICS), 3-month moving average, unadjusted for seasonality"
6866,"Accounting services, sales by type of client based on the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
7179,"Pain or discomfort that affects activities, by age group and sex, household population aged 12 and over, Canada, provinces, territories, health regions (January 2000 boundaries) and peer groups"
773,Conferences served by the Canadian Intergovernmental Conference Secretariat
7695,"Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation, housing starts in all centres 10,000 and over, Canada, provinces, and census metropolitan areas, 6-month moving average"
10421,"Water files are provided for the mapping of inland and coastal waters, Great Lakes and the St. Lawrence River. These files were created to be used in conjunction with the boundary files."
4983,"Deaths, by cause, Chapter XIII: Diseases of the musculoskeletal system and connective tissue (M00 to M99), age group and sex, Canada"
3732,"At the end of each fiscal year, financial information is published in the Public Accounts. This dataset sets out market debt as at March 31, for each of the targeted years, with the average rate of interest thereon. For purposes of comparison, market debt is classified as Marketable bonds, Treasury bills, Retail debt, Bonds for Canada Pension Plan, Canada bills and Medium‑term notes."
1523,"Fisheries and Oceans Canada (DFO) issues licences under Section 56 of the Fishery (General) Regulations to authorize the intentional release and transfer of live aquatic organisms into fish-bearing waters or fish-rearing facilities. The federal-provincial Introductions and Transfers Committee reviews applications to assess risks for possible disease, ecological and genetic effects on native species and ecosystems. When issuing a licence, the ITC may also prescribe certain measures to minimize risks associated with transfer activities, such as egg disinfection or quarantine of stock. DFO regulates the aquaculture industry in British Columbia so that the introduction and transfer of fish and shellfish into and between facilities does not adversely affect local aquatic species and habitats. Introductions and transfers of fish to and from aquaculture facilities may be required to introduce new stock, facilitate growth of the fish at different life stages or optimize the production capabilities of facilities."
2573,"The Drug Product Database (DPD) system captures information on Canadian human, veterinary and disinfectant products approved for use by Health Canada. This extract contains both marketed (active) and discontinued (inactivated) products in separate files. This data extract contains information about Drug Product - All Files. "
799,CIHR Corresponding Person details for Grants and awards for the year 2005-06 
4450,"Survey of Employment, Payrolls and Hours (SEPH), standard work week for salaried employees, by detailed North American Industry Classification System (NAICS), unadjusted for seasonality"
9803,"Census of Agriculture, farms classified by total farm capital"
2513,"Data on new recipients of CPP Disability benefits by gender, age group and the year when these new benefit recipients came into pay from 1993 to 2015."
4477,"The Road Network File is a digital representation of Canada's road network, containing information such as street names, types, directions and address ranges. "
7079,"Contact with alternative health care providers, by age group and sex, household population aged 12 and over, Canada and provinces"
460,"List of consultation for discussion among Canadians, and between Canadians and government, about designing, implementing and evaluating the following government activities: public policy, regulation, programs, and accountability."
8168,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
9363,"Industrial capacity utilization rates, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
7982,"Census of Agriculture, farms classified by size of farm, Canada and provinces"
6073,Mortgage companies statements of estimated changes in financial position
4348,"Commercial and industrial machinery and equipment rental and leasing, summary statistics, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
9982,"Property income of households, provincial and territorial"
9357,"Health behaviour in school-aged children 2002, student response to question: How do you and your friends decide what to do together?"
9375,Number of farms by reason for using an off-farm irrigation water source and province
1893,"White hake catch and biological data (sampled weight, length) collected by the dockside monitoring program of commercial catches in the Estuary and Gulf of St. Lawrence since 1989."
3756,"At the end of each fiscal year, financial information is published in the Public Accounts. This dataset details the contingent liabilities for international organizations "
3375,"The Conditional Release Grant Rate dataset provides information on the number of conditional releases granted/directed/continued/approved/authorized and the number of conditional releases denied/not directed/not approved/not authorized.  Decisions are sorted according to location and final decision. Items found in this dataset include, among others, jurisdiction, decision purpose, decision type, sentence type, review type, race, gender and offence type."
3461,"Terra Nova National Park monitors intertidal invertebrate communities using a line transect and quadrat sampling method. The survey focusses on invertebrate community composition and diversity, and should detect presence of invasive marine species."
4403,"Survey of innovation and business strategy, location of enterprises' head office, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and enterprise size, all surveyed industries"
4907,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
3150,"Places (latitude, longitude, and elevation) where Ips typographus was found in Eurasia."
2092,"Arctic char (Salvelinus alpinus), and invertebrates were collected for analysis of total Hg (THg) and methyl Hg (MeHg) annually from 2008 to 2012 along with water and sediment samples. Food web samples included periphyton, zooplankton (>500 um and <100 - <500 um), amphipods, juvenile char, and adult char (except for in 2010 when no adult char could be captured). THg and MeHg were determined in all food web, water and sediment samples at Environment Canada labs in Burlington (ON) using standard U.S. Environmental Protection Agency analytical protocols."
3182,"The Canadian National Fire Database (CNFDB) Fire Point and Polygon Data is a collection of forest fire locations and fire perimeters as provided by Canadian fire management agencies including provinces, territories, and Parks Canada._x000D_
_x000D_
To create the Canada-wide product, the data collected from each agency are projected into a common format and combined with data from other agencies; attribute fields are standardized; agency specific attribute fields are removed; and polygon areas are calculated using GIS. _x000D_
_x000D_
Note that the data contained in the CNFDB are not complete nor are they without error. Locations are approximate. Not all fires have been mapped, and data accuracy varies due to different mapping techniques. This collection includes only data that has been contributed by the agencies. Data completeness and quality vary among agencies and between years. _x000D_
_x000D_
For analyses for a single province or territory or for Parks Canada, we suggest you contact the appropriate agency. Links to the agency web sites can be found http://cwfis.cfs.nrcan.gc.ca/ha/nfdb, or can be found through the Canadian Interagency Forest Fire Centre (CIFFC) website at http://www.ciffc.ca_x000D_
_x000D_
The database is a large collaborative effort by all Canadian fire agencies. We thank the many individuals who contributed to this effort, including fire crews, field personnel, photo interpreters, pilots, digitizers, and analysts. Compilation of the Canada-wide database was partially supported by the Canadian government programs of ENFOR (ENergy from the FORest), the Program on Energy Research and Development, the Climate Change Action Fund, and Action Plan 2000. _x000D_
_x000D_
Please note that an End-User Agreement is required for accessing these data. Please refer to this agreement for information regarding restrictions of use -- http://cfs.nrcan.gc.ca/common/cwfis/End_User_Agreement_EN.html"
3897,"Volume and possibly value of post-issue activities, examples include: returns, traces, recalls, duplicates and intercepted payments."
9686,"Survey of household spending (SHS), household spending on transportation, by province and territory"
665,"Processing of temporary resident applications, including those for temporary resident visas, study permits and work permits. Note that prior to December 31, 2015, processing times for many of our services were displayed by visa office. This was useful when applications for permanent or temporary residence were always processed by the nearest visa office. However, we now have the ability to move applications around our global network to ensure they are processed as efficiently as possible. This means applications may not be processed at the office closest to where the applicant lives. As a result, only overall processing information is now being reported."
9648,"Canadian Internet use survey, Internet use, by location of access and income quartile"
6294,Quantity of meats available and output of meats and offal
6022,"In-house services provided by shelters to children residents, ex-residents and non-residents"
2608,Data set consists of approx. 14000 data points from the Cross Canada residential survey that was conducted in 2009- 2011.
839,"Charities Listings presents data on Canadian charities that are registered under the Income Tax Act and are eligible to issue official donation receipts. The data includes details on a charity’s financial information, activities, and directors/like officials. This information is compiled from the annual return each charity must fill out and submit to the Canada Revenue Agency."
4268,"Estimated stocks of grains on farms, end of crop year at July 31"
3466,Terra Nova National Park monitors annual decay rate by measuring decomposition of tongue depressors buried within randomly selected Balsam Fir and Black Spruce plots.
4492,"Persons in low income families, by age and sex of major income earner"
6285,"For-hire motor carrier freight services price index, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
8563,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
5722,"Smoking status, by age group and sex, household population aged 12 and over, Canada, provinces, territories, health regions (June 2003 boundaries) and peer groups"
8937,"Real gross domestic product, expenditure-based (quarterly)"
2103,"Fathead minnow embryos and larvae are frequently used in toxicology, including short-term embryo-only tests which often use small volumes of test solution. The effect that such conditions may have on fathead minnow development has yet to be explicitly described. Here we compared rates of embryonic development in fathead minnow embryos reared under standard light and temperature conditions with a range of possible methods. All methods yielded excellent control survival.  We demonstrated that fathead minnow embryos incubated in a range of small volumes in multi-well plates (500 μL to 2 mL per embryo) did not substantially vary in developmental rate, but flexed less frequently as embryos, hatched smaller, later and with larger yolk-sacs, and initiated feeding later than embryos reared in an excess of solution (20 mL per embryo) with or without supplemental aeration. Faster hatch and growth were promoted with an orbital shaker, but growth benefits were not sustained into the larval stage.  Developmental differences persisted in larvae reared to 20 days post-fertilization when monitoring ceased, but growth differences did not magnify and in some measurements partially resolved. To our knowledge we are the first to report effects of incubation in multi-well plates in any fish taxa. As our data revealed that the eleutheroembryonic stage for fathead minnow may be prolonged in multi-well plates, this may allow the use of longer toxicity tests using fathead minnow embryos without conflicting with existing animal welfare legislation in many countries.

The data file presents the individual length and weight to each fathead minnow fry at hatch."
10258,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
8042,"Employment Insurance Program (E.I.), number of disqualifications and disentitlements by province and reason"
8487,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
10600,The Forms Management System (FMS) is an administrative tool that allows the Forms Management Group of Transport Canada to update the catalogue data of the Transport Canada departmental forms.
8305,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
9656,"Census indicator profile, Canada, provinces, territories, health regions and peer groups, 2001"
4137,"Contribution of industries to private sector employment, gross employment creation and gross employment destruction, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
10254,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
1978,North Atlantic Right whale presence in the Bay of Fundy and Port Hawkesbury Area Response Plan areas. The Coastal Oceanography and Ecosystem Research section (DFO Science) reviewed reported opportunistic whale sightings and local knowledge sources to estimate areas where Right whales are seasonally present and delineate these areas.
8070,"Youth courts, guilty cases by length of probation"
2643,"The Financial Performance Data provides financial information to businesses with revenue ranges from $30,000 to $5,000,000.   The dataset is generated from the website and contains the following subsets:

• Total revenue
• Total expenses ($ value)
• Total expenses (%)
• Balance sheet
• Financial ratios
• Profitable/Non profitable businesses
• NAICS descriptor
• Readme – data mapping"
565,Temporary residents in the humanitarian population who request refugee protection upon or after arrival in Canada.
4940,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
6410,"Number of dangerous goods accidents recorded, Transport Canada"
6137,"Domestic exports, customs-based, by province of origin"
396,"The National Ecological Framework for Canada's ""Permafrost by Ecoregion” dataset contains tables that provide permafrost information within the ecoregion framework polygon. It provides permafrost codes and their English and French language descriptions as well as information about the percentage of the polygon that the component occupies.
 Permafrost is defined as a state of the ground, whether soil or rock, that remains at or below a temperature of 0° C for long periods (NRC, Permafrost Subcommittee, 1988). The minimum period is from one winter, through the following summer, and into the next winter; however, most permafrost has existed for much longer. This formal definition considers only the temperature of the ground, and thus permafrost is a strictly thermal phenomenon, and not a material. At temperatures below 0° C , almost all of the soil moisture occurs in the form of ground ice. Ground ice usually exists at temperature close to its melting point and so is liable to melt if the ground warms. The extent and nature of permafrost, including estimated ice content and typical ground ice forms are derived from the map """"Canada - Permafrost"""" (Natural Resources Canada, 1995)."""
121,"This data set includes the following information: Project number; Applicant name; Status (e.g., Comments/Issues); Requested funding; Recommended funding; Approved funding CA funding. Projects are one-year in length."
7540,"Labour force survey estimates (LFS), employment by Aboriginal group, National Occupational Classification (NOC), sex and age group"
9797,"Farm input price index, property taxes"
8390,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
7713,"Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation, housing starts, under construction and completions in urban centres of 10,000 and over, seasonally adjusted at annual rates"
3149,Geo-referenced point occurrence data for the exotic fungus Endoconidiophora polonica in Eurasia.
6276,"Survey of household spending (SHS), household spending on tobacco and alcoholic beverages, by province and territory"
1022,The indicator represents the total number of Preliminary Assessment reports completed on-time per the total number of Preliminary Assessment reports that were due for the reporting period (within 5 working days of sentence commencement date).
4071,"Student response to question: Do you have a bedroom all to yourself, by sex, age group and selected countries"
5496,Merchandise imports and exports balance of payments and customs-based price and volume indexes for all countries
5460,"Gross domestic product at basic prices, utilities, trade, transportation, and communications"
9290,Basket Weights of the Consumer Price Index
4253,"Provincial summary characteristics of performing arts, by discipline"
4782,"Canadian vehicle survey, passenger-kilometres, by type of vehicle and type of vehicle body"
3346,"The Conditional Release Appeal Decisions dataset provides information on the number and results of decisions rendered by the PBC Appeal Division during a given period. Decisions are sorted according to location and final decision. Items found in this dataset include, among others, jurisdiction, decision purpose, sentence type, review type, race, gender and offence type."
3716,"Canadian General Standards Board list of certification and qualification programs.  List contains company name and location, product or services description, date of listing and status, product or services listing number.  "
265,"This series outlines the different zones in Canada where various types of trees, shrubs and flowers will most likely survive. It is based on the average climatic conditions of each area."
126,Farm operating expenses represent the business costs incurred by farm operators for goods and services used in the production of agricultural commodities. This series also includes depreciation charges to account for economic depreciation or the loss in fair market value of capital assets.
6699,"Sense of belonging to local community, by age group and sex, household population aged 12 and over, (CCHS 3.1, January to June 2005), Canada, provinces and health regions (June 2005 boundaries)"
6261,"Survey of innovation, selected service industries, percentage of innovative business units that had an impact from new or significantly improved products or processes"
4237,"Surveying and mapping services, industry expenditures"
6085,"Personal services, operating expenses, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
1946,Data on the sexual maturity and growth of whelks from the Laurentian region in 1998 and 1999.
2153,"The Special Studies presented on this site are special measurement campaigns (with durations of several weeks to several years) carried out by the Air Quality Research Division of Environment Canada and its government, university and industry collaborators. The Special Studies data sets consist of air and/or precipitation chemistry data collected at high temporal and/or spatial resolution for the purpose of characterizing chemical concentrations and processes in the atmosphere. The Special Studies data files were chosen because of their high potential applicability to current and future atmospheric research. The data sets available for download are provided in collaboration with the National Atmospheric Chemistry (NAtChem) Database and Analysis Facility of Environment and Climate Change Canada."
7767,"Survey of innovation, logging and manufacturing industries, percentage of innovative plants engaged in innovation activities"
9490,"Activity limitation, by age group and sex, household population aged 12 and over, Canada, provinces, territories, health regions (January 2000 boundaries) and peer groups"
5166,"This table provides statistical information about people in Canada by their demographic, social and economic characteristics as well as provide information about the housing units in which they live."
3684,"The 20 most frequented departure airports / rail stations for bookings, made by the Government of Canada,  using Shared Travel Services.  Data includes departure ticket counts."
4794,"Deaths, by cause, Chapter XVI: Certain conditions originating in the perinatal period (P00 to P96), age group and sex, Canada"
655,"The number of applicants granted Canadian citizenship, with totals (including Grant and Resumption applications)"
1783,Observers deployed to vessels producing a packaged product were required to conduct Pan Weight experiments to estimate the actual amount of product per unit compared to weight stamped on the package or weight used by vessels for completing the log. Purpose: Data was primarily used by Observers for catch estimation when using finished products. Data also used to address fisheries management issues related to reporting.
5112,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
8710,"This table provides statistical information about people in Canada by their demographic, social and economic characteristics as well as provide information about the housing units in which they live."
4518,"Problem-solving in a technology-rich environment (PS-TRE), distribution of non-respondents and proficiency levels, by industry or occupation and sex, employed population aged 16 to 65, Canada, provinces and territories"
1387,"Underwater video of shrimps going into traps and crab reproducing from area 4VW taken through submersible dives using PISCES and SDL.
PURPOSE: Research."
10479,"Discount fare traffic, by sector (quarterly)"
9416,"Survey of household spending (SHS), household spending on education, by province and territory"
5881,"Canadian passenger bus and urban transit industries, employment and compensation, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
8776,"Enterprises holding or using trade-marks, and by trade-mark category for enterprises holding or using trade-marks, selected industry group, December 2010"
4072,"Retail trade, trends of seasonally adjusted sales, Canada by retail trade sector"
3930,"Dataset used to track and report on the number of local administrative accounts, including accounts deactivated and elevated privileges granted or denied."
3846,"The dataset outlines the value of existing assets as of March 31, 2014, as published in the Departmental Financial Statements."
3426,"The Conditional Release Special Conditions dataset provides information on the number of special conditions imposed by the PBC in a given period. The information is sorted according to location and category of decision. Items found in this dataset include, among others, jurisdiction, sentence type, race, gender and offence type."
7772,"Dietary practices, by age group and sex, household population aged 12 and over, Canada, provinces, territories, health regions (June 2003 boundaries) and peer groups"
5827,"Capital and repair expenditures, industry sector 51, information and cultural industries"
6802,"Price indexes of non-residential building construction, by class of structure"
6713,"Newspaper publishers, industry expenditures"
7468,"Survey of household spending (SHS), dwelling characteristics at the time of interview, by province, territory and selected metropolitan areas"
439,This dataset houses all of our completed ATI summaries and the months where our department had nothing to report.
8090,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
3976,Placement of chicks and turkey poults for production
5379,"Sense of belonging to local community, somewhat strong or very strong, by age group and sex"
7949,"Final demand categories, by commodity, S-level aggregation"
5078,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
10392,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
2855,"This file includes taxonomic data used to produce group, genus, and species catalogues. The data was collected from 1968 to 1979 in the Arctic, Atlantic and Pacific freshwater areas. These datasets have been converted from their legacy file structures and encoding schemes so they can be used by contemporary computers that are based upon the ASCII character-encoding scheme. Each dataset will require specialized software such as a statistical tool, to interpret and analyze the content in each file. The attached codebook describes the file’s structure and defines the variables contained in each field. Each code book is a compilation of the summary description of the dataset as provided by the creating department.  As such, it is available in English only."
1292,"Fields of elevations and currents for major tidal constituents. Predictions for tidal height and currents.
PURPOSE: Used to describe physical environment for physical and ecological oceanography."
9505,"Survey of innovation and business strategy, most important countries from which business activities were relocated into Canada, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and enterprise size, all surveyed industries"
9961,"Producer deliveries of major grains, Canada and selected provinces"
1741,"Work was conducted in the form of a survey to measure the levels of PAH, organochlorines and dioxins and furans in samples of pooled lobster tail muscle, pooled hepatopancreas and pooled eggs. Fifteen lobsters (Homarus americanus), (five from Arnold's Cove, Placentia By and five from Comfort Cove, Bonavista Bay and five from St. Chad's, Notre Dame Bay) were sampled. Purpose: Use for those interested in contaminant research"
1376,"Egg counts for Haddock collected on the Scotian Shelf as part of the Fisheries Ecology Program.
PURPOSE: Research."
9012,"Local governments, financial assets and liabilities"
4320,"Aircraft movements, by civil and military movements, airports with NAV CANADA flight service stations"
9634,"Building permits, values by activity sector, seasonally adjusted and unadjusted"
9450,"Wages, salaries and supplementary labour income, by industry, 1968 System of National Accounts (SNA)"
7083,"Canadian travel survey, domestic travel, by province and census metropolitan areas"
9049,"Construction price indexes, by selected metropolitan areas - New housing price indexes (monthly)"
8999,Summary table. Find data on registrations for apprenticeship training by year. Registrations.
5470,"Deaths, by cause, Chapter XX: External causes of morbidity and mortality (V01 to Y89), age group and sex, Canada"
8274,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
4509,"Distribution of farm families and average total income by typology group and farm type, unincorporated sector"
3467,"The park assesses expected ranges for each land cover type: successional stages by stand type, area regenerating after natural disturbance (e.g., fire), mature forest, non-forest, wetlands, and waterbodies."
1051,The indicator represents the total number of Preliminary Assessment reports completed on-time per the total number of Preliminary Assessment reports that were due for the reporting period (within 5 working days of sentence commencement date).
7137,"Average hourly earnings and average weekly hours of employees paid by the hour, (SEPH)"
6702,"Survey of Employment, Payrolls and Hours (SEPH), average weekly earnings by type of employee, overtime status and detailed North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
7635,"Labour force survey estimates (LFS), employees by establishment size, North American Industry Classification System (NAICS), sex and age group"
520,"Data on weekly and crop year to-date movement of principal grains and oilseeds from Canadian farms for domestic processing and exports, stocks in various commercial facilities and feed grain handlings."
4624,Investment in inventories
5796,"Principal statistics for manufacturing industries, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
8669,"The Road Network File is a digital representation of Canada's road network, containing information such as street names, types, directions and address ranges. "
2470,"The Advertising Campaign Evaluation Tool is based on a survey of the general population and it collects information related to recall of the advertisement; recall of the key messages; who sponsored the ad; determine what, if any action has been taken as a result of seeing the ad; government performance in providing information to the public and overall government performance."
7637,"Work absence statistics of full-time employees by province, census metropolitan area (CMA) and sex"
8896,"Gross domestic product, expenditure-based"
572,"Syrian refugees who have arrived in Canada as part of the Government of Canada's commitment to resettle Syrian refugees. Datasets include Syrian refugees who have received settlement services. Please note that in these datasets, the figures have been suppressed or rounded to prevent the identification of individuals when the datasets are compiled and compared with other publicly available statistics. Values between 0 and 5 are shown as “--“ and all other values are rounded to the nearest multiple of 5. This may result to the sum of the figures not equating to the totals indicated."
5800,"Film, television and video production, summary statistics, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
6304,"Industry price indexes for machinery and equipment, motor vehicles and other transport equipment"
3707,Dataset contains information on the number of businesses registered to sell to the federal government by location.  
587,"Operational datasets on acquisition of Canadian citizenship, permanent and temporary residency status and visitor visas of foreign nationals."
4645,"Metropolitan gross domestic product, experimental estimates"
8400,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
713,"Facts and Figures 2015: Immigration Overview Temporary Residents presents the annual intake of permit holders and refugee claimants from 1994 to 2015.
 The report also shows the total count of permit holders and refugee claimants with valid permit(s) in each calendar year and the total count of permit holders and refugee claimants as at December 31st of each year. The main body of the publication consists of a series of statistical tables and charts covering the ten-year period from 2006 to 2015.
 In Facts & Figures 2015 for Temporary Residents, numbers on International Mobility Program (IMP) Work Permit Holders for Work Purposes increased due to the moving of the Post-graduate Employment Work Permit Holders population from Work Permit Holders for Study Purposes to Work Permit Holders for Work Purposes under the International Mobility Program. As a result of this, the Facts & Figures 2015 reports reflect a corresponding decrease in the number of Work Permit Holders for Study Purposes. These changes have been applied retroactively.
 The Post-Graduation Work Permit Program (PGWPP) allows students who have graduated from a participating Canadian post-secondary institution to gain valuable Canadian work experience. Skilled Canadian work experience gained through the PGWPP potentially helps graduates qualify for permanent residence in Canada through the Canadian Experience Class (CEC). 

Facts & Figures 2013 had previously counted those who held Post-Graduation Work Permits as Work Permit Holders for Study Purposes. However, Work Permit Holders for Study Purposes is a category for individuals who are primarily students and who are also allowed to get a work permit (e.g., Co-op students) because it is integral to their course of studies. To get a PGWP, in contrast, an individual must have ceased to be a student – it is a requirement that the individual must have graduated from their program."
7086,Consumption of solid wood waste and spent pulping liquor for energy production
7656,Gross domestic product (GDP) indexes
3927,"At a high level, the data is related to Cloud Requests from Client Departments. The type of date would be : The client who are consuming cloud, cloud service model being utilized and the cloud service providers and suppliers available to offer cloud services "
4658,"Labour force survey estimates (LFS), by actual hours worked, main or all jobs, sex and age group"
9137,"Bank of Canada, positions of members of Payments Canada and buy-back transactions with primary dealers, weekly averages of daily data"
4639,"Annual survey of manufactures (ASM), sales of manufactured goods by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and industry sub-sector"
6891,"Difficulties accessing immediate care for a minor health problem, among those who required care at any time of day, household population aged 15 and over, Canada, provinces and territories"
843,"The List of charities presents data on Canadian charities that are registered under the Income Tax Act and are eligible to issue official donation receipts. The data includes details on a charity’s financial information, activities, and directors/like officials. This information is compiled from the annual return each charity must fill out and submit to the Canada Revenue Agency."
7508,"Five-year survival estimates for bones and joints cancer cases, ICD-O-3 (December 2009 CCR file), by age group and sex, population aged 20 to 99, 1 year of cases, Canada (excluding Quebec)"
343,"This dataset contains daily min-max temperature, rainfall (mm) and derived parameters such as &quot;AWDR&quot; (abundant and well-distributed rainfall) over a time window of generally -30 (or -15) to + 15 days after a given date."
6133,"Activities of foreign majority-owned affiliates in Canada, by country"
2247,"A database of verified tornado tracks across Canada has been created covering the 30-year period from 1980 to 2009. The tornado data have undergone a number of quality control checks and represent the most current knowledge of past tornado events over the period. However, updates may be made to the database as new or more accurate information becomes available. The data have been converted to a geo-referenced mapping file that can be viewed and manipulated using GIS software."
8220,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
5815,"Wholesale services price index, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
189,"The “Biomass Agriculture Inventory 1-in-10 Probability” dataset is a standalone summary table that contains the estimated 1-in-10 year low for agricultural residue yield and crop production for each Biomass Report Framework. It provides the tenth percentile values for the years 1985-2010.It includes straw or stover yield information for barley, wheat, flax, oats and corn, and crop production information for barley, wheat, flax, oats, corn, canola and soybean.Residue yields were derived from crop-to-residue ratios and climactic data. Crop production area is the area reported as being in agricultural production by Statistics Canada.This dataset also includes information about the type of tillage used in the area, demand for straw used for cattle bedding and feed, and the amount of residue that should remain on the field to prevent soil erosion, which is determined by the type of tillage used."
4198,Physical flow account for water use
8119,"Canadian business patterns, location counts with employees, by employment size and North American Industry Classification System (NAICS), Canada and provinces, December 2014"
5741,"Computer price indexes, by type of purchaser"
1670,"Dissolved Oxygen measurements by automated Winkler Titration from Oceanographic surveys. Principally intended for sensor calibration, but generally of sufficient frequency and depth range to be useful as a data set in their own right. Purpose: Ocean climate monitoring."
8383,Justice spending
9855,Soft drinks production
2164,"The Air Pollutant Emission Inventory (APEI) is an annual report of air pollutant emissions across Canada published by Environment and Climate Change Canada. The report details the release of air pollutants from all known of sources since 1990. The APEI serves many purposes, including:

-supporting the development of air quality management strategies, policies and regulations.
-fulfilling Canada’s domestic and international reporting obligations.
-informing Canadians about pollutants that affect their health and the environment.
-providing data to support air quality forecasting.

Emissions data is available for the following 17 air pollutants for the years 1990-2014:

Criteria air contaminants (CACs):
-Total particulate matter (TPM)
-Particulate matter less than or equal to 10 microns (PM10)
-Particulate matter less than or equal to 2.5 microns (PM2.5)
-Sulphur oxides (SOx)
-Nitrogen oxides (NOx)
-Volatile organic compounds (VOCs)
-Carbon monoxide (CO)
-Ammonia (NH3)

Heavy metals: 
-Mercury (Hg)
-Lead (Pb)
-Cadmium (Cd)

Persistent organic pollutants (POPs): 
-Dioxins and furans (D/F)
-Four polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) compounds (Benzo[a]pyrene, Benzo[b]fluoranthene, Benzo[k]fluoranthene and Indeno[1,2,3-cd]pyrene)
-Hexachlorobenzene (HCB)

This data record breaks down the 1995 emissions of all reported pollutants for Canada by province and territory. To view historical trends of individual substances, please visit the Air Pollutant Emission Inventory Historical Trends data record. To perform more customized selections of APEI data, please visit our website to use our interactive query tool.

The Air Pollutant Emission Inventory is compiled from many different data sources. Emissions data reported by individual facilities to Environment and Climate Change Canada’s National Pollutant Release Inventory are supplemented with well documented, science-based estimation tools to quantify total emissions. Together these data sources provide a comprehensive overview of pollutant emissions across Canada."
10792,A list of all pharmaceuticals and whether they may be accessible to VAC clients. 
9213,"Settings most often contacted for immediate care for a minor health problem, by time of day, household population aged 15 and over, Canada"
5012,"Canadian vehicle survey, number of vehicles in scope, by type of vehicle and age of vehicle model"
5356,Employment by industry and sex
6671,"Census of Agriculture, number of farm operators who lived on the farm at any time during the 12 months prior to the census"
6011,Merchandise imports and exports balance of payments-based price and volume indexes for all countries
8502,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
8974,"Survey of household spending (SHS), household spending, by household type"
10330,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
3961,"Financial ratios of farms, incorporated and unincorporated sectors, Canada and provinces"
10059,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
10116,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
4127,"Smoking initiation (average age), by age group and sex, household population aged 12 and over, smokers and former smokers, Canada, provinces, territories, health regions (June 2003 boundaries) and peer groups"
4057,Gross domestic product (GDP) and Gross National Product (GNP) at market prices and net national income at basic prices
7810,"Film, television and video production, summary statistics"
8633,"The Census Tract Boundary Files portray the census tract boundaries for which census data are disseminated. They are available for download in two types: cartographic and digital. Cartographic boundary files depict the geographic areas using only the shorelines of the major land mass of Canada and its coastal islands. Digital boundary files depict the full extent of the geographic areas, including the coastal water area. The files provide a framework for mapping and spatial analysis using commercially available geographic information systems (GIS) or other mapping software."
3053,"The Global Map Canada was developed by Natural Resources Canada from 1:1 M base maps. It provides information of the whole land area at 1 km resolution in a consistent manner. Spatial features are stored in four vector layers: transportation,boundaries, drainage and population. Global Map Canada is part of a set of digital maps that accurately cover the whole globe. The Global Map international co-operation initiative was implemented to develop global geospatial information to understand the present status and changes of global environment. In response to the Rio Summit, the International Steering Committee for Global Mapping (ISCGM) was established in 1996. The objective of the ISCGM was to promote the Global Mapping Project advocated by the Government of Japan. In 1998, Prof. John E. Estes, Founding Chairperson of ISCGM, invited National Mapping Organizations (NMOs) of the world to participate in the project. In response, 197 countries/regions participated in the project."
5157,"The Federal Electoral District Boundary Files portray the federal electoral district boundaries for which census data are disseminated. They are available for download in two types: cartographic and digital. Cartographic boundary files depict the geographic areas using only the shorelines of the major land mass of Canada and its coastal islands. Digital boundary files depict the full extent of the geographic areas, including the coastal water area. The files provide a framework for mapping and spatial analysis using commercially available geographic information systems (GIS) or other mapping software."
6229,Inter-city indexes of price differentials of consumer goods and services
5273,"Labour force survey estimates (LFS), employees working overtime (weekly) by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS), sex and age group, unadjusted for seasonality"
9771,"Consolidated capital finance account, source (finance of gross domestic capital formation), 1968 System of National Accounts (SNA)"
772,"Facts and Figures 2015: Immigration Overview Temporary Residents presents the annual intake of permit holders and refugee claimants from 1994 to 2015.
 The report also shows the total count of permit holders and refugee claimants with valid permit(s) in each calendar year and the total count of permit holders and refugee claimants as at December 31st of each year. The main body of the publication consists of a series of statistical tables and charts covering the ten-year period from 2006 to 2015.
 In Facts & Figures 2015 for Temporary Residents, numbers on International Mobility Program (IMP) Work Permit Holders for Work Purposes increased due to the moving of the Post-graduate Employment Work Permit Holders population from Work Permit Holders for Study Purposes to Work Permit Holders for Work Purposes under the International Mobility Program. As a result of this, the Facts & Figures 2015 reports reflect a corresponding decrease in the number of Work Permit Holders for Study Purposes. These changes have been applied retroactively.
 The Post-Graduation Work Permit Program (PGWPP) allows students who have graduated from a participating Canadian post-secondary institution to gain valuable Canadian work experience. Skilled Canadian work experience gained through the PGWPP potentially helps graduates qualify for permanent residence in Canada through the Canadian Experience Class (CEC). 

Facts & Figures 2013 had previously counted those who held Post-Graduation Work Permits as Work Permit Holders for Study Purposes. However, Work Permit Holders for Study Purposes is a category for individuals who are primarily students and who are also allowed to get a work permit (e.g., Co-op students) because it is integral to their course of studies. To get a PGWP, in contrast, an individual must have ceased to be a student – it is a requirement that the individual must have graduated from their program."
8791,"Internet use by individuals, electronic commerce, foreign and domestic orders by Canadians"
4055,"Materials diverted, by type, Canada, provinces and territories"
5169,"This table provides statistical information about people in Canada by their demographic, social and economic characteristics as well as provide information about the housing units in which they live."
10480,"This table provides statistical information about people in Canada by their demographic, social and economic characteristics as well as provide information about the housing units in which they live."
8396,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
1373,"Measurements of biomass and productivity of seabed macrobenthic and megabenthic organisms, from studies in eastern North America from New England to the Canadian Arctic dating from 1954 to 2000, have been assembled into a comprehensive, georeferenced, database. Information sources include primary publications, technical reports and unpublished data from scientific studies, commercial fisheries surveys, and monitoring and baseline studies carried out for offshore petroleum exploration. Supporting information and study synopses are also included. The database is compatible with existing electronic databases within Fisheries and Oceans Canada (DFO), and is intended to be made accessible via the internet. An introduction to the database, a summary table, the database developer's report and the developer's project plan are accessible from the online linkages.
PURPOSE: The current study has been carried out as part of an initiative to map biomass and productivity of benthic communities on the continental shelf of Eastern Canada, with a particular focus on relationships with surficial geology and depth, to support research initiatives within Fisheries and Oceans Canada dealing with ecosystems on the Scotian Shelf and Georges Bank. An additional objective, however, is to make the data accessible from the internet, as part of DFO's ongoing data collection and management activities."
4409,Food available by major groups in Canada
10297,"The Road Network File is a digital representation of Canada's road network, containing information such as street names, types, directions and address ranges. "
9836,Irrigation volume by month and crop type
2901,"Canada is the world’s fifth largest producer of natural gas and accounts for around five per cent of global production. Natural gas production in Canada is predominantly from the Western Canadian Sedimentary Basin in British Columbia, Alberta, and Saskatchewan; although other gas is produced from offshore Nova Scotia and smaller amounts are produced in Ontario, New Brunswick, and Nunavut. While Canadian production of conventional natural gas has been declining, production of Canadian unconventional natural gas has been rising. Development of unconventional resources like tight gas is technologically challenging and companies are increasingly using horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing to create economically viable wells. Canadian natural gas supply currently exceeds domestic consumption. Canada’s natural gas markets are heavily integrated with those of the United States and Canada exports its surplus natural gas to the U.S. while importing smaller amounts from the U.S. into Central Canada in return. While some companies have proposed exporting natural gas to overseas markets by liquefying it (liquefied natural gas or LNG), any projects that are actually built are not likely to be operational until towards the end of the decade. The National Energy Board regulates the export and import of natural gas. Export orders or licenses are required to export natural gas from Canada. Holders of export authorizations report monthly on their export activities to the Board."
692,"Family composition of Syrian refugees who arrived in Canada as part of the Government of Canada's commitment to resettle Syrian refugees.

Please note that in these datasets, the figures have been suppressed or rounded to prevent the identification of individuals when the datasets are compiled and compared with other publicly available statistics. Values between 0 and 5 are shown as “--“ and all other values are rounded to the nearest multiple of 5. This may result to the sum of the figures not equating to the totals indicated."
6353,"Poultry, number on farms at June 1 and at December 1"
9807,"Aboriginal peoples survey, perceived general health, by age group and sex, Inuit population aged 6 years and over, Canada and Inuit Nunangat"
7757,"Frequency of experiencing different feelings felt by students, by sex, age group and selected countries"
10163,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
8332,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
3058,"The Atlas of Canada National Scale Data 1:1,000,000 Series consists of boundary, coast, island, place name, railway, river, road, road ferry and waterbody data sets that were compiled to be used for atlas large scale (1:1,000,000 to 1:4,000,000) mapping. These data sets have been integrated so that their relative positions are cartographically correct. Any data outside of Canada included in the data sets is strictly to complete the context of the data."
202,"The Agriculture Extents of Canada derived from the 2001 census of agriculture, based upon soil landscape of Canada polygons (Version 3)."
3343,"The Decisions dataset provides information on the number of conditional release decisions taken by the PBC during a given period. Items found in this dataset include, among others, location, final decision, jurisdiction, decision purpose, sentence type, review type, race, gender and offence type."
6669,"Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation, average rents for areas with a population of 10,000 and over"
2060,"Ice motion estimates were derived from RADARSAT-1 and RADARSAT-2 ScanSAR imagery using the Canadian Ice Service Automated Sea Ice Tracking System (CIS-ASITS). The system applies a combination of cross-correlation and phase-correlation methods of feature tracking to sequential SAR-image pairs. Ice drift vectors of varying confidence levels are produced from examining the image pairs at multiple resolution levels. Estimates were gridded at 200 m pixel resolution and organized by month. Using outputs produced by the CIS-ASITS process, bearing and speed were calculated to produce velocity data. Ice velocity map products were generated by bi-linearly interpolating the monthly estimates to 5 KBm and 25 KBm grids."
6487,Production and shipments of floor tiles
3445,"To outline the locations of buildings on Parks Canada sites, buildings that Parks Canada manages, and other buildings of interest to Parks Canada. Polygon file to map building footprints of buildings on Parks Canada sites. Footprints may be derived by tracing the roof outline (for example from an airphoto) or using more detailed measurements of the ground floor."
2167,"The Air Pollutant Emission Inventory (APEI) is an annual report of air pollutant emissions across Canada published by Environment and Climate Change Canada. The report details the release of air pollutants from all known of sources since 1990. The APEI serves many purposes, including:

-supporting the development of air quality management strategies, policies and regulations.
-fulfilling Canada’s domestic and international reporting obligations.
-informing Canadians about pollutants that affect their health and the environment.
-providing data to support air quality forecasting.

Emissions data is available for the following 17 air pollutants for the years 1990-2014:

Criteria air contaminants (CACs):
-Total particulate matter (TPM)
-Particulate matter less than or equal to 10 microns (PM10)
-Particulate matter less than or equal to 2.5 microns (PM2.5)
-Sulphur oxides (SOx)
-Nitrogen oxides (NOx)
-Volatile organic compounds (VOCs)
-Carbon monoxide (CO)
-Ammonia (NH3)

Heavy metals: 
-Mercury (Hg)
-Lead (Pb)
-Cadmium (Cd)

Persistent organic pollutants (POPs): 
-Dioxins and furans (D/F)
-Four polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) compounds (Benzo[a]pyrene, Benzo[b]fluoranthene, Benzo[k]fluoranthene and Indeno[1,2,3-cd]pyrene)
-Hexachlorobenzene (HCB)

This data record breaks down the 1991 emissions of all reported pollutants for Canada by province and territory. To view historical trends of individual substances, please visit the Air Pollutant Emission Inventory Historical Trends data record. To perform more customized selections of APEI data, please visit our website to use our interactive query tool.

The Air Pollutant Emission Inventory is compiled from many different data sources. Emissions data reported by individual facilities to Environment and Climate Change Canada’s National Pollutant Release Inventory are supplemented with well documented, science-based estimation tools to quantify total emissions. Together these data sources provide a comprehensive overview of pollutant emissions across Canada."
3600,Not Available
3995,"Arthritis/rheumatism, by age group and sex, household population aged 12 and over, Canada, provinces, territories, health regions (January 2000 boundaries) and peer groups"
7380,"Undistributed corporation profits, 1968 System of National Accounts (SNA)"
4939,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
31,"The Business Information Architecture (BIA) consist of a graphical representation of the different functions, activities, subjects and document types characterizing AAFC's business, and of metadata used to classify AAFC's information resources.Using that metadata, the BIA provides a consistent vocabulary with which to describe the information resources used or created in AAFC."
1139,Aggregate of Property and Materiel requests captured in Remedy by type and by mission
10369,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
3548,A series of health-related data sets from various quantitative public opinion research studies. 
462,"The Canadian Action Plan Dataset aims to strengthen Canada's food safety system through: stronger food safety rules, more effective inspection, a renewed commitment to service, and more information for consumers."
6171,Financial market summary
1095,"The indicator represents the median duration (in days) that offenders are held in administrative segregation for reasons of: CCRA 31(3-A) JEP INST/OTH IND, CCRA 31(3-B) INTERF W/INVEST, and CCRA 31(3-C) INMATE IN DANGER within federal institutions."
2543,Tableaux historiques
7589,"Canadian vehicle survey, vehicle-kilometres, by type of vehicle and age of vehicle model"
1570,Raw acoustic backscatter data collected during February 2016 herring survey in Placentia Bay aboard a chartered purse seine vessel.
8550,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
3658,"The 20 most frequented Canadian airports / rail stations for bookings, made by the Government of Canada, using Shared Travel Services.  Data includes arrivals and departures ticket counts."
148,"The “Agri-Environmental Indicator (AEI) - Risk of Soil Salinization (RSS)” dataset estimates the risk of accumulation of soluble salts for Canadian agricultural lands in the Prairie region for census years 1981 to 2011. At high levels, the accumulation of these salts in soil and groundwater in the landscape can inhibit the growth of many plant species."
9710,Production and value of greenhouse vegetables
9390,"How often students eat breakfast (at least juice and toast or cereal), by sex, age group and selected countries"
5175,"Reasons for self-reported unmet needs for health care services, household population aged 15 and over, Canada"
138,The “Agri-Environmental Indicator (AEI) - Risk of P release in agricultural land (P-Source)” dataset estimates the relative risk of phosphorus release from soils in Soil Landscapes of Canada for census years from 1981 to 2011.
3666,"This dataset provides media expenditures in specialized print, radio and television aimed at official language, ethnic and Aboriginal and communities, in particular."
4715,"Balance of international payments, current account, investment income, by type and sector"
7697,"Manufacturing shipments, by Standard Industrial Classification, 1980 (SIC)"
6411,"Book publishers, electronic sales"
9578,Average prices for selected livestock
7346,"Informatics professional services price indexes (IPSPI), data processing, hosting and related services, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
10494,"Consumer Price Index, household operations and furnishings, by province (monthly)"
613,"Resettled refugees who arrived in Canada as part of the Government of Canada's Refugee and Humanitarian Resettlement Program. Datasets include resettled refugees who have received settlement services.

Please note that in these datasets, the figures have been suppressed or rounded to prevent the identification of individuals when the datasets are compiled and compared with other publicly available statistics. Values between 0 and 5 are shown as “--“ and all other values are rounded to the nearest multiple of 5. This may result to the sum of the figures not equating to the totals indicated."
6625,"Survey of household spending (SHS), household spending, three territories and selected metropolitan areas"
4228,Production and disposition of eggs
3596,Not Available
2179,"In October and November 2015, ground-based air measurements of pollutants were made from two mobile laboratories in southeast Saskatchewan in an area within a 50 km radius of Stoughton, Saskatchewan by scientists of the Air Quality Research Division, Environment and Climate Change Canada.  Measurements were made while the mobile laboratories were driven downwind of oil production facilities in the region on a daily basis, starting approximately 0900 and ending approximately 1700 local time (CST).  The objectives of these measurements included 1) scouting the Bakken shale plays in southern Saskatchewan, to determine whether petroleum resource development releases air pollutants to the atmosphere, 2) to determine the emission rates of CACs (NOx, SO2, CO, VOCs), GHG/SLCP (CO2, CH4, black carbon), and air toxics (H2S, aromatics) from these development activities and 3) to provide data that can be used in emission inventory development.  The full suite of measurements made were; CH4, CO2, CO, CH4/CO2 carbon isotope, NO, NO2, SO2, H2S, VOCs in canisters (~150 VOCs) OVOCs + BTEX, Acids (organic and inorganic), Black carbon, PM2.5 and particle number size distribution and Met parameters (T, P, RH, 3-d wind speeds, wind direction, turbulence)."
2974,fuel consumption ratings by year
7773,"Family characteristics, persons receiving Employment Insurance, by sex and age group"
3631,Not Available
5498,"Itinerant movements, by type of power plant, airports with NAV CANADA towers"
9194,"Commercial and industrial machinery and equipment rental and leasing, industry expenditures"
7141,"Census of Agriculture, bees on census day"
1143,Future Oriented Financial Statements are prepared as part of the departmental yearly Report on Plans and Priorities (RPP)
1597,Scale envelopes c/w data.
5648,"Accounting services, sales by type of goods and services"
320,"McElhanney Consulting Services Ltd (MCSL) has performed a LiDAR and Imagery survey in southern Saskatchewan. The purpose was to generate DEMs for hydraulic modeling of floodplain, digital terrain maps, and other products for portions of the Swift Current Creek valley and other miscellaneous tributaries and related water course valleys in and around the City of Swift Current.The acquisition was completed between the 16th and 25th of October, 2009. The survey consisted of approximately 790 square kilometers of coverage. While collecting the LiDAR data, we also acquired aerial photo in RGB and NIR modes consisting of 1649 frames each.In addition to the main area of interest, McElhanney has acquired some LiDAR and photo of low lying areas adjacent to the project area. This additional area was acquired on speculation that the data may be required in the future.The 3Dimensional laser returns (point cloud) were classified using Microstation (v8), Terrascan and TerraModeler. A series of algorithms based on topography were created to separate laser returns that hit the ground from the ones that hit objects above the ground.Steps taken are:Classified LiDAR surface as Bare earth, Classified other features as non-bare earth or default, Formatted to ASPRS .LAS V1.1 (Class 1 - Default (non-bare earth), Class 2 – Ground points (bare earth)), 239 tiles each 2km x2km generated for LiDAR data, File prefix FF – Classified (Non-Bare Earth and Bare Earth), File Prefix BE – Bare Earth only, Bare Earth Model Key Point (MKPts) surface files are thinned Bare earth LiDAR points. MKPts files generate a virtually identical surface without the large file size, MKPts file format is ASCII (Easting Northing Z-elevation) xyz and LAS format."
4088,"Injuries causing limitation of normal activities, by age group and sex, household population aged 12 and over, Canada, provinces, territories, health regions (January 2000 boundaries) and peer groups"
50,Provides training data and client support interaction. 
9955,"Population providing care to a family member or friend with a long-term illness, disability or aging needs, by sex and household income of caregiver"
6379,"Quality of family physician care reported by those with a regular family physician, household population aged 15 and over, Canada and provinces"
3583,This bilingual Web system is used by all government departments to access SLE results of employees. The data for these searches is taken from TSRR.
7505,Data on long-run provincial and territorial economic performance
7131,"Life expectancy, at birth and at age 65, by sex, three-year average, Canada, provinces, territories, health regions and peer groups"
6444,Final domestic demand at 1981 prices
3910,Listing of funding authorities and amounts.
4066,"Changes made to improve health, by age group and sex, household population aged 12 and over, selected provinces, territories and health regions (January 2000 boundaries)"
9112,"National balance sheet, Bank of Canada"
7364,"Historical statistics, estimated population and immigrant arrivals"
10670,Equivalency Certificate Listing - All current certificates issued exempting the Certificate Holder from certain regulatory compliance. 
9418,"Travel survey of residents of Canada, domestic travel, by province and census metropolitan areas"
9533,"Consolidated production account, primary expenses arising from domestic production"
4006,"Youth custody and community services (YCCS), releases from pre-trial detention, by length of time served and sex"
7078,"Interprovincial migrants, by province or territory of origin and destination"
6830,"Film, television and video post-production, industry profile based on domestic and foreign sales"
3647,Public Safety public facing website containing all proactive disclosures related to grants and contributions disclosed to the public
7440,"Labour force survey estimates (LFS), employment by census metropolitan area based on 2001 census boundaries and North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
8620,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
768,"Facts and Figures 2015: Immigration Overview Temporary Residents presents the annual intake of permit holders and refugee claimants from 1994 to 2015.
 The report also shows the total count of permit holders and refugee claimants with valid permit(s) in each calendar year and the total count of permit holders and refugee claimants as at December 31st of each year. The main body of the publication consists of a series of statistical tables and charts covering the ten-year period from 2006 to 2015.
 In Facts & Figures 2015 for Temporary Residents, numbers on International Mobility Program (IMP) Work Permit Holders for Work Purposes increased due to the moving of the Post-graduate Employment Work Permit Holders population from Work Permit Holders for Study Purposes to Work Permit Holders for Work Purposes under the International Mobility Program. As a result of this, the Facts & Figures 2015 reports reflect a corresponding decrease in the number of Work Permit Holders for Study Purposes. These changes have been applied retroactively.
 The Post-Graduation Work Permit Program (PGWPP) allows students who have graduated from a participating Canadian post-secondary institution to gain valuable Canadian work experience. Skilled Canadian work experience gained through the PGWPP potentially helps graduates qualify for permanent residence in Canada through the Canadian Experience Class (CEC). 

Facts & Figures 2013 had previously counted those who held Post-Graduation Work Permits as Work Permit Holders for Study Purposes. However, Work Permit Holders for Study Purposes is a category for individuals who are primarily students and who are also allowed to get a work permit (e.g., Co-op students) because it is integral to their course of studies. To get a PGWP, in contrast, an individual must have ceased to be a student – it is a requirement that the individual must have graduated from their program."
4501,"Survey of innovation, logging and manufacturing industries, percentage of innovative plants using sources of information that provided information for new innovation projects"
7867,"Merchandise imports and exports customs-based price indexes, Canada and United States trade, and Standard International Trade Classification (SITC revision 3) price indexes for all countries and United States"
10815,"""Communities benefitting"" include all distinct communities receiving benefit from a new or improved infrastructure system, network, or facility.  Note: If a community benefits from two different projects, that community will be counted twice."
98,Provides data about the type of reasons sought for a revision for the Canadian Agricultural Loans Act (CALA) Program.
9173,"Hogs statistics, number of farms reporting and average number of hogs per farm"
1678,Images of harp and hooded seals. Images are both physical and digital (since 2008). Digital images are all backed up. Print images - data is backed up but not the photos. All images are stored in the marine mammal section at the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Centre. Purpose: Reference.
2154,"The Integrated Atmospheric Deposition Network (IADN) has been in operation since 1990 under the guidance of an implementation plan signed in that year. The first implementation plan (IP1) committed the United States and Canada to work cooperatively towards the initiation of the IADN and guided the five cooperating IADN agencies (the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency; Environment Canada's Atmospheric Environment Service, National Water Research Institute, Ecosystem Health Division of Ontario Region; and the Ontario Ministry of Environment) in meeting their joint obligation.

IADN has succeeded in incorporating measurements of most of the chemicals on the target lists of IP1. The list of the target chemicals consists of PCBs (total and major congeners); hexachlorcyclohexanes (HCHs); DDT and its metabolites; chlordane, nonachlor, heptachlor epoxide, methoxychlor, dieldrin, HCB and endrin; trace metals such as Pb, As, Se, Cd; chlorinated benzenes, toxaphene, co-planar PCBs, dioxins and furans; new chemicals such as the triazine herbicides, industrial chemicals; and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs). IADN has established one master station on each of the five Great Lakes: Eagle Harbor (USA) on Lake Superior, Sleeping Bear Dunes (USA) on Lake Michigan, Burnt Island (Canada) on Lake Huron, Sturgeon Point (USA) on Lake Erie and Pt. Petre (Canada) on Lake Ontario. There are also fourteen satellite stations that serve as a valuable source of information by extending the resolution capability of IADN."
234,"The 2000 Land Use (LU) maps cover all areas of Canada south of 600N at a spatial resolution of 30 metres. The LU classes follow the protocol of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) and consist of: Forest, Water, Cropland, Grassland, Settlement and Otherland. The 2000 Land Use (LU) maps were developed in response to a need for explicit, high-accuracy, high-resolution land use data to meet AAFC’s commitments in international reporting, especially for the annual National Inventory Report (NIR) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), the Agri-Environmental program of the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and the FAOSTAT component of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO)."
9611,Undistributed corporation profits
4892,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
10292,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
36,Provides details on the validation and compliancy of AAFC websites and web applications to the Web Content Accessibility Guideline (WCAG) standard and other considerations.  
1067,The indicator represents the total number of Preliminary Assessment reports completed on-time per the total number of Preliminary Assessment reports that were due for the reporting period (within 5 working days of sentence commencement date).
4464,Supply and demand for natural gas liquids and liquefied petroleum gases
7276,"Survey of innovation and business strategy, product innovation expenditures, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and enterprise size, all surveyed industries"
620,"Operational datasets on acquisition of Canadian citizenship, permanent and temporary residency status and visitor visas of foreign nationals."
3092,"The VMap1 collection is a legacy product that is no longer supported. VMap1 is a vector digital topographic reference product developed by Natural Resources Canada (NRCan) and The Department of National Defence (DND). VMap1 complies with international military specifications vector map, level 1. There are 24 VMap1 libraries covering the Canadian territory. The National Topographic Data Base (NTDB) at scale of 1:250 000 is the main source used to populate the Canadian VMap1 Libraries. Administrative Boundaries from Statistics Canada are used to add international borders, provincial and Indian reserve limits. NRCan paper maps at scale of 1:250 000 and the information in the Canadian Geographical Names Data Base (CGNDB) are used to capture the names. The JOG (Joint Operations Graphic) paper maps were used by DND for the production of libraries 37, 38 and 66. Topographic features mainly from the NTDB have not been updated. VMap1 is published once and no product revision is planned."
6842,"Inventories of Canadian crude oil, liquefied petroleum gases (LPG) and products"
5327,"Retail trade, by province and territory"
6849,"Survey of innovation and business strategy, most important countries in which enterprises made changes to operational activities, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and enterprise size, all surveyed industries"
5532,"Asthma, by age group and sex"
8836,"Registered pension plans (RPPs) and members, by funding instrument, sector and type of plan"
2363,"Data were compiled in campaign mode over the ice of the frozen Arctic Ocean near Barrow, Alaska using the OOTI (Out On The Ice) mobile laboratory mounted on a specially manufactured Arctic sled and running on a bank of 12 VDC batteries. Chemical and meteorological variables were collected with commercial instrumentation, as detailed below. Mercury (Hg): Gardis (atomic absorption spectroscopy) instrumentation displayed strong dependence of the cell desorption with battery voltage, thus data are not archived here. Bromine monoxide (BrO): Measurements were taken by a hybrid MAXDOAS (multi-axis differential optical absorption) instrument built by the University of Heidelberg and Hoffmann Messtechnik GmbH, with an integrated scanning head built by the University of Alaska Fairbanks. Bromine monoxide and oxygen dimer data were taken at variable temporal resolution based on available light intensity and are all included in one file for the entire campaign. Ozone (O3): One-minute averaged ozone data were taken with 2B technology monitors and are archived and merged with meteorological variables in daily combined data files. Sonic anemometer data were recorded at 10Hz, 1 Hz, and 1 minute sampling frequency; Data archived are at 1 minute resolution. Wind, relative humidity, temperature, atmospheric pressure and radiation: Campbell Scientific instrumentation data are archived at 1 minute intervals. Position: GPS was recorded at 10Hz resolution by a NovaTel GPS receiver built into the OOTI system. The 1-minute frequency record is included with the combined daily files. Environmental survey (photos): Logitech webcam snap shots at 5 minute intervals are archived. A portable power generator was installed on site to provide power to a 10 Hz home-built ""fast ozone"" monitor based on absorption (these data are not archived) and mercury measuring instrumentation including speciation with Tekran 2537A, 1130, 1135 (cold vapour atomic fluorescence spectroscopy). Existing gaps in the data are due to instrumentation maintenance or power interruption."
5977,"Frequency of drinking in the past 12 months, by age group and sex, household population aged 12 and over who are current drinkers, Canada, provinces, territories, health regions (June 2003 boundaries) and peer groups"
1145,"The data contained in this set is provided by Administration and Technology Services (TIA). The data set provides official information from the Government of Canada pertaining to the imports of turkey products into Canada, subject to controls under Canada's Export and Import Permits Act (EIPA)."
1461,Fishery-dependent commercial octopus dive fishery gridded catch and effort information.
7008,Shorn wool statistics
9934,"Child tax benefits for adults with and without disabilities, by age group and sex, Canada, provinces and territories"
2996,"Annual data on employment, GDP, GHG emissions, energy efficiency, electricity generation, clean energy, Canadian energy assets, trade, revenue to government, Canada's position in the world "
7260,Contributions to percent change in real household final consumption expenditure
5943,"Distribution of the household population by adult body mass index (BMI) - Health Canada (HC) classification, by sex and age group"
1870,Eye size measures of American lobster larvae during egg development collected in September near the Magdalen Islands since 2005.
5744,"Historical statistics, estimates of undercoverage of population, by age and sex"
9978,Work absence statistics of full-time employees by sex and job status
1656,Crab commercial plant sampling. Purpose: Crab research and stock assessment.
8977,"Gross domestic product at basic prices, finance and other selected services"
5382,"Aquaculture industry, by selected provinces"
8266,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
4448,Gross national income at market prices
4476,"Heritage institutions, summary statistics, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
2220,"CANGRD is a set of Canadian gridded annual, seasonal, and monthly temperature and precipitation anomalies, which were interpolated from stations in the Adjusted and Homogenized Canadian Climate Data (AHCCD); it is used to produce the Climate Trends and Variations Bulletin (CTVB)."
9442,"Victim services survey, types of victim service agencies"
6654,"Survey of Maintenance Enforcement Programs (SMEP), activity status, by type of beneficiary, interjurisdictional support order status and collection rates"
9843,"Hog, barley ratio, live basis, Winnipeg"
9376,"Balance of international payments, current account, goods"
1132,"Information about charter flights to, from, and within Canada"
18,"Lease agreements by property, area, cost unit and license type."
8130,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
8205,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
6873,"Expenditures per resident-day in residential care facilities, by principal characteristic of the predominant group of residents and size of facility, Canada, provinces and territories"
3786,"At the end of each fiscal year, government-wide financial information is published in the Public Accounts. This dataset, based on the Volume 3 of the Public Accounts, provides, by ministry and by department and agencies, details for all Court awards paid in the given fiscal year. Where the situation warrants non-disclosure, the recipient's name may be withheld from publication. This dataset is from the Public Accounts of Canada and is not the official record of information. The official version of record can be found on the Receiver General website for the most recent fiscal year and the Library and Archives website for historical years."
7735,"Merchandise imports and exports customs-based price indexes, Canada and United States trade, and Standard International Trade Classification (SITC revision 3) price indexes for all countries and United States"
915,"The corporate statistical tables provide key tax and accounting information as of December 31, 2016, for all T2 returns that were assessed or reassessed for corporations with tax years that fall within the 2010 to 2014 calendar years."
150,The “Annual Unit Runoff (dam3/km2) for a 75% Probability of Exceedence” dataset is a line data set that covers the extent of Canada. It shows the 75% Probability of exceedence annual unit runoff.
7005,"Merchandise import and export, customs-based price index, weighted for all countries and the United States, by Standard International Trade Classification (SITC)"
4646,"Aircraft movements, by civil and military movements, airports with NAV CANADA towers"
5830,"Historical statistics, estimates of undercoverage of population with English as a mother tongue"
9798,"Crime severity index and weighted clearance rates, by police service, Alberta"
9940,"Census of Agriculture, vegetables (excluding greenhouse vegetables)"
2662,These reports provide information on grants and contributions awarded by ISED.
5308,"Labour force characteristics by immigrant status, by detailed age group"
7985,Gross fixed capital formation
7537,"Direct taxes from persons and contributions to social insurance plans and other transfers to government, provincial economic accounts"
5093,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
7282,"Survey of electronic commerce and technology, use of information and communication technologies, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
9058,"High-growth enterprises based on number of employees and revenue, by North American Industry Classification System"
7420,"Aboriginal peoples survey, access to and use of health care services, by Aboriginal identity, age group and sex, population aged 6 years and over, Canada, provinces and territories"
1568,"Water quality, zooplankton, phytoplankton, beathos sediment, and fish samples to determine sensitivity to acid precipitation. Purpose: Determine sensitivity to acid precipitation."
9539,"Survey of Employment, Payrolls and Hours (SEPH), employment for all employees, by enterprise size and North American Industry Classification System (NAICS), unadjusted for seasonality"
10458,The Dissemination Area and Land Area Correspondence File portrays the percentage of the 2011 Census dissemination area's land area within the boundaries of 2006 Census dissemination areas.
8820,"Retail commodity sales, by retail trade sector (quarterly)"
1826,"Set detail information (gear amount, type, fisher information, location, time fished etc.), length frequencies and related information collected in Sentinel Survey activity for 1995-present. Purpose: Dataset is used primarily to compare catch rates of cod in inshore areas with catch rates from previous years of Sentinel activity as an indication of the status of cod. Data are used in assessment of stocks in NAFO 2J3KLPs in conjunction with research survey data and commercial catch data."
4763,"Canadian vehicle survey, passenger-kilometres, by type of vehicle and age of vehicle model"
6391,"Canadian business counts, locations with employees, by employment size and North American Industry Classification System (NAICS), Canada and provinces, June 2015"
308,This data shows spatial density of Barley cultivation in Canada. Regions with higher calculated spatial densities represent agricultural regions of Canada in which Barley is more expected. Results are provided as rasters with numerical values for each pixel indicating the spatial density calculated for that location. Higher spatial density values represent higher likelihood to have Barley based on analysis of the 2009 to 2016 AAFC annual crop inventory data.
8499,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
3009,"Provided partners and industry stakeholders a snapshot of residential activity by province and Canada as a whole, as well as provide useful data on our home labelling programs.  Many of the partners use this data to assist them in validating their own program results.
It provides data on the total number of EAs by labelling program, number of builders by program, CO-02 savings, GHG savings, energy savings by fiscal year, annually, potential energy savings, etc, etc – most of the reports are for ERS 0-100 as well as ERS 15."
1041,"The indicator represents the number of suspensions of conditional release per 1,000 offenders supervised in the community."
4898,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
10811,"Business Expenditures in Research and Development (BERD) – expenditures by private firms on research and development. It includes creative work undertaken on a systematic basis in order to increase the stock of knowledge, and the use of this knowledge to devise new applications. R&D covers three activities: basic research, applied research, and experimental development."
2871,The dataset shows the average elapsed time taken on cases completed over the last five years.
385,"The National Ecological Framework for Canada's ""Land and Water Area by Province/Territory and Ecoprovince” dataset provides land and water area values by province or territory for the Ecoprovince framework polygon, in hectares. It includes codes and their English and French descriptions for a polygon’s province or territory, total area, land-only area and large water body area."
3841,Applications for review by the federal Court of a decision by Public Services and Procurement Canada under the Access to Information Act
44,List of items in the collection of the Canadian Agriculture Library that underwent conservation treatment.
5497,"Periodical publishers, summary statistics, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
5380,"Consumer Price Index, clothing and footwear, by province (monthly)"
181,"Accumulated Precipitation represents the amount of total precipitation (solid and/or liquid in mm) which has been recorded over a given period of time. Products are produced for the following period types: Agricultural Year, Growing Season and Winter Season as well as rolling products for 7, 14, 30, 60, 90, 180, 270, 365, 730, 1095, 1460 and 1825 days."
6265,"Number of persons employed in employer enterprise deaths, by North American Industry Classification System and enterprise size"
10424,"Water files are provided for the mapping of inland and coastal waters, Great Lakes and the St. Lawrence River. These files were created to be used in conjunction with the boundary files."
9383,"Aboriginal peoples survey, food security, by Aboriginal identity, age group, sex, and number of persons in household, population aged 6 years and over, Canada, provinces and territories"
634,"Temporary residents who are in Canada on a work permit or study permit in the observed calendar year. Datasets include Temporary Foreign Worker Program (TFWP) and International Mobility Program (IMP) work permit and study permit holders by year in which permit(s) became effective. Please note that in these datasets, the figures have been suppressed or rounded to prevent the identification of individuals when the datasets are compiled and compared with other publicly available statistics. Values between 0 and 5 are shown as “--“ and all other values are rounded to the nearest multiple of 5. This may result to the sum of the figures not equating to the totals indicated."
7171,"Percentage distribution of personal income by source, 1968 System of National Accounts (SNA)"
9440,"Enterprises holding or using other forms of intellectual property, by type and selected industry group, 2010"
10017,"Corporations Returns Act (CRA), major financial variables"
1495,The Crabs_Bio database holds all catch composition and biological data collected on various crab species from fishery independent and fishery dependent surveys throughout BC. 
10345,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
1662,Crab sampled tagged released data and recapture info from fishers. Purpose: Crab research and stock assessments.
6605,"Balance of international payments, flows of Canadian direct investment abroad and foreign direct investment in Canada, by category of transactions"
4597,"Machinery and equipment price indexes (MEPI), by industry of purchase"
6823,"Historical statistics, estimates of undercoverage of population"
9571,"Travel survey of residents of Canada, traveller characteristics, by province of destination"
3255,This data set is supplementary information that accompanies the published journal paper.
9818,"Consulting services, industry expenditures"
275,"Average of the analysis of the difference between precipitation and potential evapotranspiration (P-ETP) from May 1 to October 1, based on the period between 1974 and 2003. The analysis is based on precipitation and temperature values interpolated every 10 km using the ANUSPLIN method, based on data from the Ministère du Développement durable, de l'Environnement et des Parcs du Québec and from Environment Canada.Evapotranspiration corresponds to the loss of water from the soil and plant cover by evaporation, and the loss of water from plants through transpiration.The potential evapotranspiration index (ETP) is based on the principle that the growth of a crop is optimal when the usable water reserve is sufficient and there is a balance between water absorbed by the roots and water lost through transpiration. The ETP corresponds to the maximum theoretical possible evaporation and transpiration in given climate conditions. The accumulated difference between precipitation and potential evapotranspiration (P-ETP) gives a general indication of the “climatological” water balance and can be used to make qualitative comparisons between regions in terms of irrigation requirements and risks of drought. However, a specific assessment of water needs for a given culture and a specific location requires knowledge of the actual evapotranspiration which, in addition to climatological factors, also takes into account the characteristics of the plant and the soil."
6328,"Arthritis/rheumatism, by age group and sex, household population aged 12 and over, territories"
140,The “Agri-Environmental Indicator (AEI) - Agricultural Particulate Matter Emissions (APMEI) – Particulate Matter less than 10 μm (PM 10)” dataset provides estimated net emissions of particulate matter with an aerodynamic diameter of less than 10 micrometers (including less than 2.5 micrometers (PM2.5)) from agricultural lands for census years 1981 to 2011.
1559,"Survey for Physella wright - the hotwater physa, at Liard River Hotsprings Provincial Park, August 2006."
410,"The ‘Land use allocation to Soils and Landforms by year’ dataset links agricultural land use activities to soils and landscapes within Soil Landscapes of Canada (SLC) polygons. The land use allocations to soils area datasets were generated on an annual time step (1971-2015). Agricultural land use is categorized and allocated based on the following general land use types: Annual cropland, Perennial cropland, Specialty Crops, Improved pasture and Unimproved Pasture."
9900,"Adult correctional services, custodial and community admissions to provincial and territorial programs"
2843,"The Water Survey of Canada has been collecting and publishing data since 1908. The PEAKS file contains annual maximum instantaneous discharges or water levels from about 1,400 gauging stations across Canada. Data are in imperial units. Data were collected from 1908 to 1979. These datasets have been converted from their legacy file structures and encoding schemes so they can be used by contemporary computers that are based upon the ASCII character-encoding scheme. Each dataset will require specialized software such as a statistical tool, to interpret and analyze the content in each file. The attached codebook describes the file’s structure and defines the variables contained in each field. Each code book is a compilation of the summary description of the dataset as provided by the creating department.  As such, it is available in English only."
8562,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
8066,"Families and Households Highlight Tables, Private households by household type, for Canada, provinces and territories, 2011 and 2006 censuses - English version. Provides information highlights by topic via key indicators for various levels of geography."
9201,Accounting services price index
5177,"This table provides statistical information about people in Canada by their demographic, social and economic characteristics as well as provide information about the housing units in which they live."
10664,"The Program Alignment Architecture presents a structured inventory of TC's programs as per the TB Policy on Management, Resources and Results Structure "
7986,"International investment position, Canadian direct investment abroad and foreign direct investment in Canada, by type of Canadian concern and capital invested"
10719,A reference dataset that includes fiscal calendar data as standardized data such as fiscal year and related labels.  
5983,"Percentage distribution of gross domestic product (GDP) by expenditure category, 1968 System of National Accounts (SNA)"
2457,"Environics Research Group was retained to conduct a survey to evaluate the effectiveness of the Financial Benefits for Canadian Families advertising campaign on behalf of Human Resources and Skills Development Canada (HRSDC). In total, 1,203 telephone interviews were completed from March 7-15, 2011 with a representative sample of Canadians living in the 10 provinces and an oversample of parents of children under the age of 18."
10164,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
4408,"Migrant taxfiler income, by in- and out-migration estimates and provincial regions"
1842,"Seabed classification data. Pictures and video of capelin and sand lance habitat. Pictures located on network server, video and acoustic files located on DVD.  "
9396,"Retail services price index, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
9923,"Gross domestic product, income-based"
4497,"Trucking summary statistics, by province and territory"
278,"Average date of the first autumn frost (Tmin ≤ 0, -1, -2, -3 or -4 °C) based on the period from 1979 to 2008.This analysis was based on temperature values interpolated at 10 km using the ANUSPLIN method, based on data from the Ministère du Développement durable, de l'Environnement et des Parcs du Québec and from Environment Canada.These values give a general indication of the frost risk for a region, but they are not necessarily representative of a specific site. Frost risk varies locally depending on a number of factors, particularly topography and proximity to a body of water. The first autumn frost is associated with the first day on which the minimum daily temperature is less than or equal to lethal temperature. Like the last spring frost, this indicator is associated with various levels of probability linked to risks of crop growth ending or potential damage to crops.It is important to consider the date of the last spring frost when choosing a crop or cultivar for a region."
3728,"At the end of each fiscal year, financial information is published in the Public Accounts. This dataset presents a summary of the changes in liability balances for contaminated sites. "
2043,"The National Environmental Emergencies Center is the point of contact for the regulated community and the public to report environmental incidents related to spills/releases. The center receives caller information (name and phone) purpose of call, location of incident, product spilled, quantities, affected environment."
693,"Family composition of Syrian refugees who arrived in Canada as part of the Government of Canada's commitment to resettle Syrian refugees.

Please note that in these datasets, the figures have been suppressed or rounded to prevent the identification of individuals when the datasets are compiled and compared with other publicly available statistics. Values between 0 and 5 are shown as “--“ and all other values are rounded to the nearest multiple of 5. This may result to the sum of the figures not equating to the totals indicated."
6221,"Labour force survey estimates (LFS), weekly wage distributions of employees by type of work, North American Industry Classification System (NAICS), and sex"
8196,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
3154,Molecular characterization of dsRNA in Heterobasidion irregulare and Heterobasidion occidentale and effects on growth and sporulation - stored at NCBI Genbank
3361,"The Conditional Release Appeal Decisions dataset provides information on the number and results of decisions rendered by the PBC Appeal Division during a given period. Decisions are sorted according to location and final decision. Items found in this dataset include, among others, jurisdiction, decision purpose, sentence type, review type, race, gender and offence type."
1685,Observers deployed to vessels using trawls were required to identify and label a diagram with information on the trawl used. Purpose: Data was not used.
10101,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
8845,Other consumer and business credit - Balance sheet and income statement
7724,"Retail trade, constant dollars and price index, Canada"
2031,"Information found in the document include plant name, name of owner, name of operator, province, year in which the unit was commissioned, electricity generation capacity, expected end of life date, applicable start date of refurbishment, and expected end data of refurbishment. The list needs to kept evergreen."
2030,"List of existing natural gas-fired units in Canada greater than 25 MW. This includes combustion turbines (simple cycle and combined cycle) and boilers. Combustion turbine-based cogeneration has been included as much as possible, but boiler-based cogeneration not included. Details include owner, capacity, online date, CO2 emissions (if available), generation (if available). Used during development of natural gas electricity regulations and for general sector knowledge. This list may not be explicit and needs to be kept evergreen."
6470,"Income of immigrants, by sex, landing age group, immigrant admission category, period of immigration, family status and tax year, for Alberta, 2013 constant dollars"
3889,"This dataset contains unit prices from multiple different standing offers, including commercial goods, software, and software-related services."
4527,"Survey of innovation, logging and manufacturing industries, percentage of plants with activities to develop product or process innovations that were abandoned"
4776,"Employment Insurance program (EI), beneficiaries receiving regular income benefits by province and National Occupational Classification for Statistics (NOC-S), seasonally adjusted"
2431,"The Canada Student Loans Program (CSLP) has been tracking the awareness, opinions, attitudes, behaviours and experiences of Canadian youth (aged 17 to 30) on post-secondary education (PSE) and student financial assistance (SFA), in particular, Canada Student Loans and Grants. The findings are used to inform communications efforts of the program and highlight any program delivery issues. The survey is also a component of the CSLP performance measurement strategy. By targeting all youth, the study addresses the needs and perceptions of those youth who are currently pursuing PSE, as well as those who are thinking about attending PSE, or not expecting to attend PSE."
551,People who have been granted permanent resident status in Canada.
5340,"Population by mother tongue, by province and territory, excluding institutional residents (2011 Census)"
5096,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
10161,Provides a statistical overview of various geographic areas based on a number of detailed variables.
2584,"""This dataset provides the results obtained by two radiation monitoring networks operated by Health Canada: the Canadian monitoring sites of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT) and the Canadian Radiological Monitoring Network (CRMN). More information about the CTBT and its monitoring network is available here: http://www.hc-sc.gc.ca/ewh-semt/contaminants/radiation/nuclea/index-eng.php and http://www.ctbto.org/. Further information on the CRMN network is available at: http://www.hc-sc.gc.ca/ewh-semt/contaminants/radiation/crmn-rcsr/index-eng.php. The results provided are activity concentration and uncertainty for various nuclides in the months following the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear accident. Reported are the naturally occurring radionuclides: beryllium-7 (7Be) and lead-210 (210Pb), and all anthropogenic radionuclides observed: cesium-134 (134Cs), cesium-136 (136Cs), cesium-137 (137Cs), iodine-131 (131I), iodine-132 (132I), iodine-133 (133I), tellurium-129 (129Te), tellurium-129m (129mTe), tellurium-132 (132Te), technetium-99m (99mTc), lanthanum-140 (140La), and the radioactive gases: xenon-131m (131mXe), xenon-133 (133Xe), xenon-133m (133mXe), and xenon-135 (135Xe). The absence of data for a specific nuclide indicates that it was either below the detection threshold or absent. The data comes from the measurement and analysis of particulates accumulated in filter media or from xenon gas extracted from the atmosphere. Cascade summations corrections were applied to ensure reporting of the true physical relationships among the observed radionuclides. Throughout the accident period, the measured activity concentrations of all radionuclides represent only a small fraction of the typical annual background exposure from natural sources of radiation. Therefore, these levels do not present any risks to the health of Canadians. "" "
7729,"Principal statistics for manufacturing industries, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
3383,"The Conditional Release Grant Rate dataset provides information on the number of conditional releases granted/directed/continued/approved/authorized and the number of conditional releases denied/not directed/not approved/not authorized.  Decisions are sorted according to location and final decision. Items found in this dataset include, among others, jurisdiction, decision purpose, decision type, sentence type, review type, race, gender and offence type."
4936,"Households and the environment survey, participation in outdoor activities, Canada, provinces and census metropolitan areas (CMA)"
5975,"Type of barrier to accessing selected diagnostic tests, household population aged 15 and over, Canada"
8275,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
7558,"Survey of innovation and business strategy, manufactured goods sold and exported as is by other enterprises, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and enterprise size, all surveyed industries"
5244,"Price indexes of non-residential building construction, by type of building and major sub-trade group"
5159,"The Population Centre Boundary Files portray the population centre boundaries for which census data are disseminated. They are available for download in two types: cartographic and digital. Cartographic boundary files depict the geographic areas using only the shorelines of the major land mass of Canada and its coastal islands. Digital boundary files depict the full extent of the geographic areas, including the coastal water area. The files provide a framework for mapping and spatial analysis using commercially available geographic information systems (GIS) or other mapping software."
9131,"Radio broadcasting industry, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS), Canada, provinces, territories and selected census metropolitan areas"
8458,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
8491,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
9057,"Health behaviour in school-aged children 2002, student response to question: Are you allowed to smoke at home?"
4093,"Average weekly hours for employees paid by the hour (SEPH), unadjusted for seasonal variation, for selected industries classified using the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
9809,"Survey of Employment, Payrolls and Hours (SEPH), job vacancy statistics, labour demand and job vacancy rate by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
5712,"Student response to question: How often do you spend time with friends right after school, by sex, age group and selected countries"
5430,"Performing arts, operating statistics, by province and territory"
7907,"Survey of innovation and business strategy, performance resolution practices for production of goods or delivery of services, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and enterprise size, all surveyed industries"
6867,"Literacy and numeracy, average scores and distribution of proficiency levels, by health and community connectedness, population aged 16 to 65, Canada, provinces and territories"
1454,"A chlorophyll fluorescence time series was collected at various locations around the coast of Vancouver Island, British Columbia, Canada for monitoring phytoplankton concentrations. A Wetlabs ECO fluorometer was deployed every few months on a schedule depending on season and sensor availability. The instrument hung by a chain attached to the side of the buoy, or dock, depending on location, and measured chlorophyll using the fluorescence emission at 695nm. The instrument also measured turbidity by detecting the scattered light at 700nm. The units had internal batteries and data storage and were programmed to make a group of 5 measurements every 30 minutes. A copper wiper covered the sampling window between groups of measurements to reduce fouling. Times are in UTC unless otherwise stated."
9127,"Architectural services, operating expenses, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
8527,"Survey of innovation and business strategy, business decisions made by enterprises, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and enterprise size, all surveyed industries"
541,Describes the end-use quality of western Canadian mustard surveyed from the annual harvest on the Prairies.
9619,"Survey of household spending (SHS), household equipment at the time of interview, by province, territory and selected metropolitan areas"
3275,"9.1 Area treated with insecticides by jurisdiction and product_x000D_
9.1.0 Area treated with insecticides by jurisditcion, insect pest, product and application method_x000D_
9.1.1 Area treated with insecticides by jurisdiction, pest, product and ownership_x000D_
9.1.2 Rate and amount of insecticides applied by jurisdiction, pest and product_x000D_
9.2 Area treated with herbicides by jurisdiction, pest and product_x000D_
9.2.1 Area treated with herbicides by jurisdiction, product and tenure_x000D_
9.2.2 Rate and amount of herbicides applied by jurisdiction and product_x000D_"
6784,"Informatics professional services price index (IPSPI), internet publishing and broadcasting, and web search portals, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
7427,"How many evenings students spend away from home with friends, by sex, age group and selected countries"
4629,"Corporation profits before taxes, by industry, 1968 System of National Accounts (SNA)"
8426,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
10429,"Labour force characteristics by immigrant status of population aged 25 to 54, and by educational attainment"
5005,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
8575,"The Road Network File is a digital representation of Canada's road network, containing information such as street names, types, directions and address ranges. "
1726,"This work was conducted in the form of a survey to measure the levels of trace elements in samples of sea scallop (Placopecten magellanicus) tissues: gonad, gills, mantle, digestive gland, adductor muscle, and several samples of a combination of gonad, gill and mantle. Organochlorines were measured on adductor muscle and gonad. They were taken from twelve areas in Newfoundland waters (St. Pierre Bank; Kingwell, Placentia Bay; Wild Cove, Bonne Bay; Hawke's Bay; Pinchgut, St. Mary's Bay; Port au Port Bay; Petite Fort; Broad Cove, (King Island); Burnside, Bonavista Bay; Ship Cove; Comfort Cove, Notre Dame Bay; Main Brook). The survey was done to investigate the levels of trace metals and organochlorines in tissues of wild and aquaculture grown sea scallops both in a pre- and post-spawning condition. Purpose: Used by those interested in Contaminant research."
5702,"Pension satellite account, financial flows, by type of plan"
7611,"Smokers in 1996/97 and their smoking status in 1998/99, by age group and sex, household population aged 12 and over, Canada and provinces"
660,"Processing of permanent resident applications, including those for economic class, family class and refugees. Note that prior to December 31, 2015, processing times for many of our services were displayed by visa office. This was useful when applications for permanent or temporary residence were always processed by the nearest visa office. However, we now have the ability to move applications around our global network to ensure they are processed as efficiently as possible. This means applications may not be processed at the office closest to where the applicant lives. As a result, only overall processing information is now being reported."
7837,"Adult correctional services, community admissions to provincial and territorial programs by age group"
574,"Syrian refugees who have arrived in Canada as part of the Government of Canada's commitment to resettle Syrian refugees. Datasets include Syrian refugees who have received settlement services. Please note that in these datasets, the figures have been suppressed or rounded to prevent the identification of individuals when the datasets are compiled and compared with other publicly available statistics. Values between 0 and 5 are shown as “--“ and all other values are rounded to the nearest multiple of 5. This may result to the sum of the figures not equating to the totals indicated."
9462,"Appeals, approved and refused for legal aid services, by criminal and civil matters"
3211,Project on the characterization of the spatial structure of softwood stands (2500 m2 plots)
3637,Not Available
5226,Advertising and related services
6844,"Postsecondary savings for children 0 to 17 years old, by province"
2378,A form on Canada.ca that users can voluntarily fill so the public can share their thoughts and quality of their experience on Canada.ca
1361,"A pilot study was initiated in 2005 to examine variability in the number of newly settled lobsters (aka young-of-the-year) in different locations in coastal Nova Scotia. Newly-settled lobsters were sampled by divers using suction sampling at one site (Lobster Bay) and with collectors at this site plus 4-5 other sites depending on year. The collectors are rock filled wire cages that mimic the preferred habitat of lobsters that settle out of the plankton as post-larvae.
PURPOSE: To develop tools and methods to sample lobster young-of-the-year in order to understand spatial dynamics and ultimately to develop an index of settlement strength to be used to predict recruitment into the fishery."
3011,"SEASAT was launched on June 28, 1978, carrying a five sensor payload, and operated successfully until a power failure brought transmission to a stop on October 10, 1978. Its height and inclination were 791 km and 108.0 degrees respectively. The SAR was an L-band HH polarization; the resolution was 25 metres; the swath was 100 km; and the antenna had a depression angle of 70. The portion of potential coverage of Canada is 10%."
10173,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
5400,"Capital expenditures by sector, by province and territory"
6610,"Live births and fetal deaths (stillbirths), by place of birth (hospital and non-hospital), Canada, provinces and territories"
9921,"Changes in physical activity level between 1994/1995 and 2010/2011, household population aged 12 and over who reported on physical activity every 2 years, by age group and sex, Canada and provinces"
8627,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
6212,"Employment services, operating expenses, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
3833,"This dataset outlines the planned events under $25,000 to be attended by employees in the fiscal year. The Travel, Hospitality, Conference and Event Expenditures (THCEE) Annual Plan is the annual plan approved by the Deputy Minister on proposed related expenditures as per the THCEE policy requirements. This dataset is produced on an annual basis along with some adhoc individual approvals."
1830,Shrimp length distribution from commercial sources. Gives also maturity and parasitology. Purpose: Research/stock assessment.
10707,Frais réclamés aux compagnies pour services rendus par nos inspecteurs.
1194,"Raw data collected, converted to HAC format, on DFO research cruises under various mandates of multi-frequency acoustic back scatter. Recently includes Atlantic zone monitoring cruises, two per year (Spring and Fall).
PURPOSE: Primarily Macro-Zooplankton concentrations but also includes Laval Fish and Pelagic Fish concentrations."
2770,"This data results from radio sounding of the ionosphere by the Alouette I satellite. Data were collected from January 1, 1965 to December 31, 1965. These datasets have been converted from their legacy file structures and encoding schemes so they can be used by contemporary computers that are based upon the ASCII character-encoding scheme. Each dataset will require specialized software such as a statistical tool, to interpret and analyze the content in each file. The attached codebook describes the file’s structure and defines the variables contained in each field. Each code book is a compilation of the summary description of the dataset as provided by the creating department.  As such, it is available in English only."
2579,A series of health-related data sets from various quantitative public opinion research studies. 
1382,"Data collected on Groundfish Surveys prior to 1970. Database components: Fishing event, catch, and sampling data.
PURPOSE: May be of use for species at risk."
2511,"Data on the number of recipients of CPP Retirement, Disability and Survivor benefits by gender for the month of June from 1981 to 2016."
8482,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
1645,"Atlantic salmon scale samples and coding sheets are available and are stored both on, and off site.  "
8676,"Canadian vehicle survey, passenger-kilometres, by type of vehicle, driver age group and sex of driver"
33,Provides the details of the results of the tickets and verifies the performance of the systems involved.
7125,"Gross domestic product (GDP), expenditure-based, at 1986 prices"
9117,"Industry price indexes for chemical products, by regions"
7108,"Person-days not worked in Canada as a result of work stoppages, by industry based on the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and region, Employment and Social Development Canada - Labour Program"
683,"People who have been granted permanent resident status in Canada.

Please note that in these datasets, the figures have been suppressed or rounded to prevent the identification of individuals when the datasets are compiled and compared with other publicly available statistics. Values between 0 and 5 are shown as “--“ and all other values are rounded to the nearest multiple of 5. This may result to the sum of the figures not equating to the totals indicated.

Please note that the datasets will not be updated."
5414,"Implicit chain price indexes, gross domestic product (quarterly)"
5615,"Survey of household spending (SHS), household spending, Canada, regions and provinces, by household income quintile"
244,"Current precipitation compared to historical distribution products are created by comparing the accumulated precipitation amounts (mm) for the time period being processed against all available historical information from the same window of time. This comparison will rank the current amount and assign it a percentile value determined by where it falls against the historic record. Products are produced for the following period types: Agricultural Year, Growing Season and Winter Season"
888,"The Individual Tax Statistics by Tax Bracket tables are based on federal tax brackets and outlined by province, territory, and all of Canada. The data in the tables contains initial assessment of personal income tax returns that were processed one year prior to the year of publication. "
277,"Average date of last spring frost (Tmin ≤ 0, -1, -2, -3 or -4 °C) based on the period from 1979 to 2008.This analysis was based on temperature values interpolated at 10 km using the ANUSPLIN method, based on data from the Ministère du Développement durable, de l'Environnement et des Parcs du Québec and from Environment Canada.These values give a general indication of the frost risk for a region, but they are not necessarily representative of a specific site. Frost risk varies locally depending on a number of factors, particularly topography and proximity to a body of water. The date of the last spring frost corresponds to the last day on which the minimum daily temperature was less than or equal to freezing temperature, i.e. a temperature low enough to damage vegetables. That temperature varies between 0 and -5 °C depending on the crop. Spring frost can cause significant damage to crops, depending on their phenological stage at the time of exposure. For several annual crops, the date of the last spring frost can help with decisions about seeding earlier and minimizing risks to crops. It is important to consider the date of the last spring frost when choosing a crop or cultivar for a region."
1611,Catch stats from trap net fishery at various near river or river locations. Purpose: Stock assessment/research papers.
5408,Summary table. Find data on undergraduate tuition fees by field of study and year. Canada. STC
2986,fuel consumption ratings by year
7278,"Canadian travel survey, travel in Canada, by province of origin and destination and intraprovincial travel"
9782,"Film and video distribution, summary statistics"
1592,"Arctic cod length, weight, stomach contents, and collection information. Purpose: Characterize arctic cod species in region."
7409,"Breastfeeding practices, females aged 15 to 55 who had a baby in the last 5 years, Canada, provinces, territories and peer groups (June 2003 boundaries)"
9183,"Survey of innovation, logging and manufacturing industries, percentage of plants with expenditures on new machinery or equipment by different locations"
4779,"Upper income limits and income shares of adjusted after-tax income quintiles, by economic family type, 2011 constant dollars"
6034,"Survey of Employment, Payrolls and Hours (SEPH), employment by type of employee and detailed North American Industry Classification System (NAICS), unadjusted for seasonality"
6564,"Canadian vehicle survey, vehicle-kilometres, by type of vehicle and type of road"
704,"Facts and Figures 2015: Immigration Overview Temporary Residents presents the annual intake of permit holders and refugee claimants from 1994 to 2015.
 The report also shows the total count of permit holders and refugee claimants with valid permit(s) in each calendar year and the total count of permit holders and refugee claimants as at December 31st of each year. The main body of the publication consists of a series of statistical tables and charts covering the ten-year period from 2006 to 2015.
 In Facts & Figures 2015 for Temporary Residents, numbers on International Mobility Program (IMP) Work Permit Holders for Work Purposes increased due to the moving of the Post-graduate Employment Work Permit Holders population from Work Permit Holders for Study Purposes to Work Permit Holders for Work Purposes under the International Mobility Program. As a result of this, the Facts & Figures 2015 reports reflect a corresponding decrease in the number of Work Permit Holders for Study Purposes. These changes have been applied retroactively.
 The Post-Graduation Work Permit Program (PGWPP) allows students who have graduated from a participating Canadian post-secondary institution to gain valuable Canadian work experience. Skilled Canadian work experience gained through the PGWPP potentially helps graduates qualify for permanent residence in Canada through the Canadian Experience Class (CEC). 

Facts & Figures 2013 had previously counted those who held Post-Graduation Work Permits as Work Permit Holders for Study Purposes. However, Work Permit Holders for Study Purposes is a category for individuals who are primarily students and who are also allowed to get a work permit (e.g., Co-op students) because it is integral to their course of studies. To get a PGWP, in contrast, an individual must have ceased to be a student – it is a requirement that the individual must have graduated from their program."
9544,"Youth courts, guilty cases by mean and median amount of fine"
3216,Seasonal changes in spruce budworm populations from eggs to adults on balsam fir (number/m2 of foliage).
7339,"Labour force survey estimates (LFS), weekly wage distributions of employees by type of work, North American Industry Classification System (NAICS), and sex, unadjusted for seasonality"
7749,"Trucking industry, employment statistics, by province and territory"
6683,"Volunteer rate and distribution of volunteer hours, by sex, Canada, provinces"
9956,"Personal income, personal income per person, and personal disposable income"
2476,This survey collects information on client satisfaction and system improvement feedback. It is accessible for a 2-3 week period after each new system release.
8351,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
6414,"Estimates of the number of census families for July 1, Canada, provinces and territories"
10198,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
568,Permanent residents who have received settlement services.
5548,"Job Vacancy and Wage Survey (JVWS), job vacancies, job vacancy rate and average offered hourly wage by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS), unadjusted for seasonality"
6377,"Government sector revenue and expenditure, 1968 System of National Accounts (SNA)"
6878,"Merchandise imports and exports customs-based price indexes, Canada and United States trade, and Standard International Trade Classification (SITC revision 2) price indexes for all countries and United States"
9171,"Annual aircraft movements, by class of operation and type of operation, airports without air traffic control towers"
6198,"Live births, by age of mother, Canada, provinces and territories"
5004,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
8214,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
10410,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
1519,"This entry provides access to the figures and data tables that feature in the CSAS Research Document titled 'Optical, chemical, and biological oceanographic conditions on the Scotian Shelf and in the eastern Gulf of Maine in 2013'. Please consult the meta-data text file that accompanies the zip file download for the figure on the data usage policy and appropriate citation. The meta-data file also provides field descriptors and any other information that may be useful in interpreting the data provided in relation to the accompanying imagery. Abstract: Ocean conditions were unusually warm and stratified on the Scotian Shelf in 2012, and the plankton response to the physical environment in 2012 set the initial conditions for the plankton in 2013. In particular, zooplankton biomass and the abundance of the two dominant herbivorous copepod species, Calanus finmarchicus and Pseudocalanus spp., were low, and there appeared to be a shift to a smaller-size phytoplankton community on the Scotian Shelf. In 2013, annual average temperature anomalies were still positive in the Maritimes Region, but less so than in 2012, and temperature and stratification anomalies were marked by strong sub-annual and mesoscale variability. Variability in the physical environment was reflected in nutrient and plankton conditions. Annual average deep-water and winter surface nitrate inventories were similar to average overall, but surface nitrate was higher than average. The magnitude of the spring bloom chlorophyll peak was above average on the Eastern Scotian Shelf (ESS) and below average on the Western Scotian Shelf (WSS) and in the eastern Gulf of Maine, but summer-fall blooms were above average in all areas. Zooplankton biomass and abundance were lower than average on the eastern transects, but anomalies were mixed on the Central Scotian Shelf, ESS and Bay of Fundy. The abundance of Pseudocalanus spp. was higher than average in the central and western part of the region. Although C. finmarchicus abundance was variable and lower than average overall, it was high on the WSS and in the eastern Gulf of Maine during the summer ecosystem trawl survey and higher than average at the Halifax-2 station and in Emerald Basin in autumn, suggesting a return to more typical abundances in the western part of the region at the end of 2013. Similar to the broader Scotian Shelf, the 2013 Bedford Basin annual average temperature was warmer than normal but not as warm as 2012. Small phytoplankton were more abundant than average in Bedford Basin and large phytoplankton less abundant. An initial evaluation of relationships among annual anomalies of physical variables, nitrate, spring bloom metrics and zooplankton at Halifax-2 from 1999 to 2013 identified bloom duration and enhanced upwelling as important correlates of zooplankton biomass and dominant copepod abundance at an annual scale. Continuous Plankton Recorder sampling showed that observations of phytoplankton bloom dynamics and abundance of C. finmarchicus at Halifax-2 in 2012 were representative of shelf-wide patterns. http://www.dfo-mpo.gc.ca/csas-sccs/Publications/ResDocs-DocRech/2014/2014_104-eng.html"
3762,"At the end of each fiscal year, financial information is published in the Public Accounts. This dataset, based on its Volume 2, provides the Sales of Goods and Services (in thousands of dollars). This dataset is from the Public Accounts of Canada and is not the official record of information. The official version of record can be found on the Receiver General website for the most recent fiscal year and the Library and Archives website for historical years. "
1813,"Seabed bottom type classification data. Also contains positional information and depth. Purpose: Seabed classification for various species habitat preference, gear efficiency, external clients, various. Purposes. Data is used for countless. Purposes, in industry and in government."
4810,"Private sector employment flow rates expressed as a percentage of employment, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS), provinces and the territories"
5899,"Barriers to accessing immediate care for a minor health problem, by time of day, household population aged 15 and over, Canada and provinces"
1014,The indicator represents the total number of Preliminary Assessment reports completed on-time per the total number of Preliminary Assessment reports that were due for the reporting period (within 5 working days of sentence commencement date).
2032,"Information found in this Access database include  UnitID, sector, province, unit class, year in which the unit was commissioned, and NOx emission factor. This list may not be explicit and needs to be kept evergreen."
2509,"This short form is listed under Corporate Solution Directory (CSD) number 471 as EWCMS-dataRepositories
Enterprise Web Content Management System (EWCMS) solution's data repositories of web content for the portfolio. The data repositories in the EWCMS solution holds the sum of the current and historical records on their supported web sites for the portfolio.  The change history is held in the data repositories for the long term, a 12 year storage plan with options to extend; as repositories storage covers ATIP, legal, or Library and Archives Canada requirements for staff when asked for records on their web publication."
10251,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
1845,"A series of data on detailed biological examination (length, sex, maturity, total weight, gutted weight, stomach contents) of individual specimens of squid from various commercial fisheries and research vessel cruises (any location, any source). Purpose: Resource assessment."
561,Temporary residents in the humanitarian population who request refugee protection upon or after arrival in Canada.
7312,Private non-profit organizations' payments for research and development performed by other sectors
1643,"The is a geo-referenced Geographic Information System (GIS) database of resources (groundfish, pelagics, shellfish), aquatic plants,, marine mammals, birds, infrastructure and cultural information, shoreline classification - based on traditional knowledge. The data is in MapInfo .TAB file format. Purpose: This is primarily a decision making tool used in the delivery of Oceans Programs pertaining to the Oceans Act. This data is also used by other DFO Sectors, other Federal and Provincial Departments and Agencies, Academia and Private Sector."
1455,"Various oceanographic parameters including temperature, salinity, and fluorescence measured from BC Ferries vessels during transits between Swartz Bay and Tsawwassen, BC."
4161,"Canada and Quebec Pension Plans (CPP and QPP) balance sheet, as at March 31"
4631,"Survey of digital technology and Internet use, website features, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and size of enterprise"
9189,"Distribution of after-tax income, by economic family type, 2011 constant dollars"
8729,The Aboriginal Population Profile presents information on the Aboriginal identity population from the 2011 National Household Survey (NHS). 
8539,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
1343,"Atlantic salmon data trapped and passed through fishway at Morgans Falls, LaHave River, as an index of freshwater adult returns.
PURPOSE: To monitor abundance and survival."
3209,"Samples of insects trapped using Malaise traps on the North-Shore (2014-2017), in Armagh and L'épaule (2015+) and in New Brunswick (2015+). All insects have been kept, but only SBW parasitoid wasps have been identified."
6111,"Divorces, by duration of marriage, Canada, provinces and territories"
10525,All institutions subject to the Access to Information (ATI) Act are required to post summaries of completed ATI requests within thirty calendar days after the end of each month. Download ATI summaries from key federal institutions.
2932,"Seismic refraction is collected using instruments similar to those used for seismic reflection where the seismic velocities of layers increase with depth. Therefore, where higher velocity (e.g. clay) layers may overlie lower velocity (e.g. sand or gravel) layers, seismic refraction may yield incorrect results. In addition, since seismic refraction requires geophone arrays with lengths of approximately 4 to 5 times the depth to the density contrast of interest (e.g. the top of bedrock), seismic refraction is commonly limited (as a matter of practicality) to mapping layers only where they occur at depths less than 100 feet."
1069,The indicator represents the total number of food services grievances that were upheld (i.e. with a final grievance decision of UPHELD) per total number of food services grievances submitted.  
8724,The Aboriginal Population Profile presents information on the Aboriginal identity population from the 2011 National Household Survey (NHS). 
5234,"Net worth of family units, by selected family characteristics"
3241,"The Canadian Base Network is designed to serve as the ground segment of monumented survey control in the Canadian Spatial Reference System (CSRS).  The CBN is a network of pillar monuments with forced-centering plates, positioned three-dimensionally with GNSS  to centimetre-level accuracy with respect to the Canadian Active Control System (CACS).   It provides the link between the existing framework and the CACS. "
1255,Archived data available for historical searches and research.
4811,"Average total income, by census family type, 2011 constant dollars"
3044,"The National Hydro Network (NHN) focuses on providing a quality geometric description and a set of basic attributes describing Canada's inland surface waters. It provides geospatial digital data compliant with the NHN Standard such as lakes, reservoirs, watercourses (rivers and streams), canals, islands, drainage linear network, toponyms or geographical names, constructions and obstacles related to surface waters, etc. The best available federal and provincial data are used for its production, which is done jointly by the federal and interested provincial and territorial partners. The NHN is created from existing data at the 1:50 000 scale or better. In particular, the modeling work of the NHN was based in part on Linear Reference System (LRS) concepts. This approach allows the management of geometric representation separately from attribute information (referred to as event in LRS). Unique Identifiers are associated with each geometric and event object. These IDs (called National Identifiers - NIDs) will lead to more efficient management of updates between data producers and data users. The NHN data have a great potential for analysis, cartographic representation and display and will serve as base data in many applications. The NHN Work Unit Limits were created based on Water Survey of Canada Sub-Sub-Drainage Area."
8106,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
9291,"Contact with dental professionals, by age group and sex, household population aged 12 and over, territories"
10537,"The Overview of Government Spending and Performance (OGSP) provides a whole-of-government overview of actual spending by all federal organizations receiving budgetary appropriations. The overview is organized according to a whole-of-government framework which links program activities implemented by departments, agencies and other federal government organizations to 16 government-wide outcomes within four spending areas. "
2021,This dataset contains scientific data used to develop this risk management instrument and or to further understand this sector.
7910,"Sound recording industry, provincial summary characteristics"
390,"The National Ecological Framework for Canada's ""Land Cover by Ecoprovince” dataset provides land cover information within the ecoprovince framework polygon. It provides landcover codes and their English and French language description as well as information about the percentage of the polygon that the component occupies."
1002,The indicator represents the total number of Preliminary Assessment reports completed on-time per the total number of Preliminary Assessment reports that were due for the reporting period (within 5 working days of sentence commencement date).
9784,"Survey of digital technology and Internet use, main benefits of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) use by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and size of enterprise"
2664,"The Canada Business Network (CBN) dataset contains a summary description of federal, provincial and territorial (FPT) government program and service descriptions written for the general business audience. The CBN dataset contains the following metadata taxonomies: NAICS, SGC, content tags, type of financing and purpose of financing."
1775,Age and Growth data derived from otolith samples collected by Observers from both foreign and domestic commercial fisheries. Purpose: Data is used in the analyses of various aspects of the commercial fisheries and in stock assessments.
9580,"Self-rated health, by age group and sex, household population aged 12 and over, territories"
8327,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
5696,"Fecal occult blood test (FOBT) obtained in past 2 years or, colonoscopy or sigmoidoscopy obtained in last 5 years, by age group and sex, aged 50 or older, Canada, provinces, territories, health regions (2007 boundaries) and peer groups"
802,CIHR Grant and Award Details for the year 2007-08 
4230,"Railway transport survey, property accounts summary of assets and accumulated amortization, by mainline companies"
10135,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
6000,"Canadian vehicle survey, buses, passenger-kilometres by type of vehicle and purpose of trip (specific to vehicle type)"
5431,"Public sector employment, wages and salaries, by province and territory"
3068,"The Atlas of Canada National Scale Data 1:5,000,000 Series consists of boundary, coast, island, place name, railway, river, road, road ferry and waterbody data sets that were compiled to be used for atlas medium scale (1:5,000,000 to 1:15,000,000) mapping. These data sets have been integrated so that their relative positions are cartographically correct. Any data outside of Canada included in the data sets is strictly to complete the context of the data."
6051,"Life stress, by age group and sex, household population aged 18 and over, Canada, provinces, territories, health regions (June 2005 boundaries) and peer groups"
170,"Understanding the state and trends in agriculture production is essential to combat both short-term and long-term threats to stable and reliable access to food for all, and to ensure a profitable agricultural sector. Starting in 2009, the Earth Observation Team of the Science and Technology Branch (STB) at Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada (AAFC) began the process of generating annual crop type digital maps. Focusing on the Prairie Provinces in 2009 and 2010, a Decision Tree (DT) based methodology was applied using optical (Landsat-5, AWiFS, DMC) and radar (Radarsat-2) based satellite images. Beginning with the 2011 growing season, this activity has been extended to other provinces in support of a national crop inventory. To date this approach can consistently deliver a crop inventory that meets the overall target accuracy of at least 85% at a final spatial resolution of 30m (56m in 2009 and 2010)."
4577,"High income trends of tax filers in Canada, provinces, territories and census metropolitan areas (CMA), national thresholds"
6552,"Labour force survey estimates (LFS), average usual hours and wages of employees by age group, sex, union coverage, job permanency, and National Occupational Classification (NOC), unadjusted for seasonality"
4300,"Employment Insurance Program (E.I.), employees contributing and their contributions to employment insurance by province, age group and sex"
1911,Zooplankton data collected in eastern Canada (but mostly in the Estuary and Gulf of St. Lawrence) since 1945. Data include species identification and their abundance.
10779,Information on grants and contributions awarded by the Treasury Board of Canada Secretariat. 
8653,"The Road Network File is a digital representation of Canada's road network, containing information such as street names, types, directions and address ranges. "
5354,Construction price indexes
4931,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
1928,"CTD profiles, water samples and zooplankton data acquired during the monitoring of Shédiac station since 2008."
1102,"The indicator represents the total distribution of initial Offender Security Level decisions (1st OSL on sentence), as a ratio of all initial Offender Security Level decisions."
7621,"Survey of innovation and business strategy, distinct goods or services offered, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and enterprise size, all surveyed industries"
2445,"This study, which tracks data from similar surveys conducted in 2008 and 2009, was undertaken to track experience and satisfaction with Canada Student Loans Program (CSLP) service delivery among its borrowers."
9132,"National balance sheet, trusteed pension plans"
3122,"Collection of more than 15000 wood bars coming from nearly 500 trees (11 species, deciduous and coniferous) sampled across the Québec boreal forest between 2006 and 2009 by the Ministère de la faune, des forêts et des parcs (MFFP). These samples were given to the Laurentian Forestry Centre, under the initiative of Chhun-Huor Ung. They are currrently stored at Valcartier forest experimental station. All associated data (sample identification, species, provenance, tree data, site data) are available through TreeSource. Note: The dataset named ""20 - Banque de rondelles de bois 1995"" can be erased because it is part of the current dataset."
2776,"This file contains data collected for an experimental study to determine how the availability of comparative price information affects consumers when they are making food purchasing decisions. The file consists of data collected from May 1974 to February 1975 and relates to the weekly retail prices in dollars and cents for 65 food items in 26 stores in the Ottawa-Hull area. These datasets have been converted from their legacy file structures and encoding schemes so they can be used by contemporary computers that are based upon the ASCII character-encoding scheme. Each dataset will require specialized software such as a statistical tool, to interpret and analyze the content in each file. The attached codebook describes the file’s structure and defines the variables contained in each field. Each code book is a compilation of the summary description of the dataset as provided by the creating department.  As such, it is available in English only."
6483,Production and exports of coal
7237,"Estimates and projections of population aged 0 to 29 with Aboriginal identity, and proportion of persons with Aboriginal identity among the Canadian population, by age group, Canada"
3369,"The Conditional Release Special Conditions dataset provides information on the number of special conditions imposed by the PBC in a given period. The information is sorted according to location and category of decision. Items found in this dataset include, among others, jurisdiction, sentence type, race, gender and offence type."
224,"The Census of Agriculture is disseminated by Statistics Canada's standard geographic units (boundaries). Since these census units do not reflect or correspond with biophysical landscape units (such as ecological regions, soil landscapes or drainage areas), Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada in collaboration with Statistics Canada's Agriculture Division, have developed a process for interpolating (reallocating or proportioning) Census of Agriculture information from census polygon-based units to biophysical polygon-based units.In the “Interpolated census of agriculture”, suppression confidentiality procedures were applied by Statistics Canada to the custom tabulations to prevent the possibility of associating statistical data with any specific identifiable agricultural operation or individual. Confidentiality flags are denoted where ""-1"" appears in data cell. This indicates information has been suppressed by Statistics Canada to protect confidentiality. Null values/cells simply indicate no data is reported."
735,"Facts and Figures 2015: Immigration Overview–Permanent Residents presents the annual intake of permanent residents by category of immigration from 1990 to 2015. The main body of the publication consists of a series of statistical tables and charts covering the ten-year period from 2006 to 2015. The report depicts selected characteristics for permanent residents.

The statistics for admission of permanent residents are provided for the three main categories of immigration—family class, economic immigrants and refugees—as well as for other immigrants who do not qualify in any of these categories."
2668,Information about ATI requests previously made to the Government of Canada.
4176,"Health behaviour in school-aged children 2002, student response to question: How many hours a week do you usually take part in physical activity that makes you out of breath or warmer than usual?"
9147,"Federal government indirect support to provinces and territories for postsecondary education, by type of contributions"
671,"Temporary residents who are in Canada on a work permit in the observed calendar year. Datasets include Temporary Foreign Worker Program (TFWP) and International Mobility Program (IMP) work permit holders by year in which permit(s) became effective. Please note that the datasets will not be updated. 

Please note that in these datasets, the figures have been suppressed or rounded to prevent the identification of individuals when the datasets are compiled and compared with other publicly available statistics. Values between 0 and 5 are shown as “--“ and all other values are rounded to the nearest multiple of 5. This may result to the sum of the figures not equating to the totals indicated."
1529,"This dataset contains area-based management measures that constitute 'other effective area-based conservation measures' ('other measures') according to DFO's Operational Guidance for Identifying ‘Other Effective Area-Based Conservation Measures’ in Canada’s Marine Environment. It also contains basic information about these ‘other measures’, specifically their names, size, objectives, associated prohibitions, and DFO region. The identification of existing, and establishment of new, 'other measures' is an important element of Canada’s strategy to meet its marine conservation targets to protect 5 percent of Canada’s marine and coastal areas by 2017 and 10 percent by 2020. 'Other measures' will be evaluated regularly, taking the most recent available information into account. In addition new 'other measures' will be identified or established over time. Therefore, this data set may change over time, and is considered current as of its publication date stamp. The boundaries and attributes in this dataset are intended to provide a visual representation of the area and are for information purposes only, and should not be considered legally authoritative. Please contact your local fishery officer for official coordinates and information about these closures."
6286,"Canadian vehicle survey, vehicle-kilometres, by type of vehicle and sex of driver"
8453,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
5794,National Balance Sheet Accounts
3202,"These were 11 experiments carried out between 1986 and 1989 to measure the effect of exposure to light, different waves of cold or heat, wind, etc., on diapause, winter survival and the spring development of spruce budworm larvae. Measurements of micro-climate in hibernaculums were also taken."
309,This data shows spatial density of Canola cultivation in Canada. Regions with higher calculated spatial densities represent agricultural regions of Canada in which Canola is more expected. Results are provided as rasters with numerical values for each pixel indicating the spatial density calculated for that location. Higher spatial density values represent higher likelihood to have Canola based on analysis of the 2009 to 2016 AAFC annual crop inventory data.
7605,"Domestic and international itinerant movements, by type of operation, airports with NAV CANADA towers"
3262,This project aims at linking biotic and climatic stresses and tree mortality in the boreal forest.
6793,United States Consumer Price Index (CPI)
8565,"The Road Network File is a digital representation of Canada's road network, containing information such as street names, types, directions and address ranges. "
9657,"Canadian government finance statistics (CGFS), statement of operations and balance sheet for education institutions"
6109,"Production, bottling or stocks of beverages"
9071,"General social survey, perception of job being done by local police in regard to treating people fairly, by sex, population aged 15 and over"
9517,"Number of acquaintances, by sex, Canada and provinces, 2013"
7193,"Neighbourhood income and demographics, taxfilers and dependents, by sex, marital status and age group"
5807,"What students think of their school environment, by sex, age group and selected countries"
8871,"Mortgage loan approvals, new residential construction and existing residential properties, by province and territory"
1055,The indicator represents the total number of Preliminary Assessment reports completed on-time per the total number of Preliminary Assessment reports that were due for the reporting period (within 5 working days of sentence commencement date).
2987,fuel consumption ratings by year
7173,Raw materials price indexes
1126,"Representation by Employment Equity occupational groups for visible minorities, Aboriginal Peoples, persons with disabilities and women and by fiscal year at the Canada School of Public Service. 
The total number of employees in each group represents only those who have self-identified in accordance with the Employment Equity Act and who are not on leave without pay. The base Employment Equity population used to calculate representation excludes employees on leave without pay."
2520,"Feedback provided to an online survey that sought the views of Canadians on allowing workers in federally regulated private sectors to formally request flexible working arrangements (FWAs) from their employers and which FWAs would help them to better balance their professional, family and personal responsibilities."
6649,"Barriers to accessing selected diagnostic tests, household population aged 15 and over, Canada"
415,"Contracts entered into by the Government of Canada for amounts over $10,000"
6720,"Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation, mortgage loan approvals, new properties"
9256,"Survey of household spending (SHS), detailed food expenditures, Canada, regions and provinces"
10276,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
4078,"Problem-solving in a technology-rich environment (PS-TRE), distribution of PS-TRE non-respondents and proficiency levels, by perceptions of personal health and community connectedness, population aged 16 to 65, Canada, provinces and territories"
7520,"Bank of Canada, positions of members of Payments Canada and buy-back transactions with primary dealers, monthly averages of daily data"
8541,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
4876,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
10527,"Departmental Results Reports (DRRs) – previously named Departmental Performance Reports (DPR) – are individual department and agency accounts of actual accomplishments against plans, priorities and results set out in their respective Departmental Plans (DPs). DPs and DRRs make up Part III (the Departmental Expenditure Plans) of the Estimates publications.

Through DRRs, individual departments and agencies provide information on how they are progressing toward their strategic goals. DRRs cover the most recently completed fiscal year and are normally tabled in the fall."
7476,"Labour force survey estimates (LFS), employment by Aboriginal group, North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and age group, Canada and selected regions"
9426,"Survey of innovation, logging and manufacturing industries, percentage of plants using methods to protect their intellectual property"
5809,"Merchandise imports and exports customs-based price indexes, Canada and United States trade, and Standard International Trade Classification (SITC revision 2) price indexes for all countries and United States"
8813,"Influenza immunization, less than one year ago by sex, by province and territory"
4164,"Health behaviour in school-aged children 2002, student response to question: How often do you use a seat belt when you ride in a car?"
7253,"Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation, vacancy rates, apartment structures of six units and over, privately initiated in urban centres of 50,000 and over"
6226,"Retail services price index, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
7921,"International transactions in securities, portfolio transactions with non-residents in Canadian stocks, by type"
3435,"The Conditional Release Special Conditions dataset provides information on the number of special conditions imposed by the PBC in a given period. The information is sorted according to location and category of decision. Items found in this dataset include, among others, jurisdiction, sentence type, race, gender and offence type."
3654,Public Safety website related to Public Safety public emergency preparness campaing
4486,"Canadian capital gains, by characteristics of taxfilers with capital gains"
8960,"Births, estimates, by province and territory"
2280,Citation information for peer reviewed scientific and technical articles published in 2012 authored / co-authored by Environment Canada researchers.
9897,"Cancer incidence, by selected sites of cancer and sex, three-year average, census metropolitan areas"
9704,"Building permits, values by activity sector"
1270,"The Cruise Project Database was created to house metadata related to various field missions in the Maritimes Region, including platform, associated programs, temporal and geographic ranges. Also used to track and manage the various data collected during the missions, including archival locations, and processing statuses.
PURPOSE: Used to manage and track the various data managed within the Data Acquisition Assembly and Distribution unit in Maritimes Science Branch."
6063,Stocks of frozen and chilled imported meats
3950,"Involvement of the criminal justice system, snapshot day, (women unless otherwise noted)"
398,"The National Ecological Framework for Canada's ""Landform by Ecoprovince” series contains tables that provide regional landform information for components within the ecoprovince framework polygon. It provides landform codes and their English and French-language descriptions as well as information about the percentage of the polygon that the component occupies. Regional landforms generally describe a region and include the various shapes of the land surface resulting from a variety of actions such as deposition or sedimentation (eskers, lacustrine basins), erosion (gullies, canyons), and earth crust movements (mountains). The regional landform classes are: plateau or tableland, hill and mountain, organic wetland, plain, scarp or valley."
3039,"Natural gas onshore facilities used to receive, unload, load, store, gasify, liquefy, process and transport by ship, natural gas that is imported from a foreign country, exported to a foreign country, or interior commerce.Mapping Resources implemented as part of the North American Cooperation on Energy Information (NACEI) between the Department of Energy of the United States of America, the Department of Natural Resources of Canada, and the Ministry of Energy of the United Mexican States.The participating Agencies and Institutions shall not be held liable for improper or incorrect use of the data described and/or contained herein. These data and related graphics, if available, are not legal documents and are not intended to be used as such. The information contained in these data is dynamic and may change over time and may differ from other official information. The Agencies and Institutions participants give no warranty, expressed or implied, as to the accuracy, reliability, or completeness of these data."
4087,Work absence statistics of full-time employees by sex and presence of children
10356,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
1480,Seasonal to annual abundance and associated biological traits of zooplankton in BC nursery lakes (1976-2017).
1275,"Temperature data from coastal areas have been collected extensively from Newfoundland region since 1967 and the Scotian Shelf, Bay of Fundy and Gulf of St. Lawrence since 1978. The program, referred to as the Long-Term Temperature Monitoring Program (LTTM), is conducted mainly in support of various fisheries programs as well as to monitor any long-term changes of temperature. The Coastal Time Series database is a collection of all coastal thermographs held by the Ocean Science Division at the Bedford Institute of Oceanography. The data archive includes about 4000 coastal temperature time series from inshore areas on the Scotian Shelf, Gulf of St. Lawrence and Newfoundland coast. About 125 new series are added annually. This abstract was obtained from the web site identified as the distribution source for the database."
1070,"The indicator represents the median duration (in days) that offenders are held in administrative segregation for reasons of: CCRA 31(3-A) JEP INST/OTH IND, CCRA 31(3-B) INTERF W/INVEST, and CCRA 31(3-C) INMATE IN DANGER within federal institutions."
8364,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
8536,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
1347,"Accumulation of fish trapped daily at Mactaquac.
PURPOSE: Keep track of catch statistics. Inventory of number of salmon and gaspereau escapement, sent to the Fish Hatchery for sorting."
9886,Sales finance companies: quarterly statement of estimated assets and liabilities
4862,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
6541,"Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation, housing starts, all areas, Canada and provinces, 6-month moving average"
9808,"Federal public sector employment reconciliation of Treasury Board of Canada Secretariat, Public Service Commission of Canada and Statistics Canada statistical universes, as at December 31"
10280,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
6146,"National balance sheet, local governments"
6714,"Construction wage rate indexes, by unionized tradesmen"
1577,"The survey consisted of logbooks being sent to anglers in Newfoundland and Labrador to capture information on recreational fishing activity. It includes information on rivers fished, dates fished, amount of time fished, and catch (grilse and salmon, kept and released). River codes are from Waldron DATA REPORT NEW/D-74-2. Purpose: Recreational angling statistics were provided by DFO guardians and contained a large estimated portion. The logbook survey was implemented to verify trends in the DFO guardian data.."
3195,"When capturing adult SBWs using different traps in 19 plots, butterflies were measured to determine the weight and size of individuals."
812,CIHR Corresponding Person details for Grants and awards for the year 2012-13 
476,Dataset of sample monitoring food supply for potential contamination permitting to identify chemical contamination issues and seek removal of food in violation of standards from the marketplace.
8334,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
3650,Public Safety public facing website containing all information about its GetCyberSafe public campaign
5972,"New cases for all combined primary sites of cancer (based on the July 2004 CCR tabulation file), by age group and sex, Canada, provinces and territories"
9749,"Postsecondary non-university education (college) expenditure, by direct source of funds, type of college and type of expenditures"
3267,"This dataset is associated with the article by Marine Pacé, Nicole J. Fenton, David Paré and Yves Bergeron entitled ""Differential effects of feather and Sphagnum spp. mosses on black spruce germination and growth"". It includes data of black spruce germination (greenhouse), seedling growth (0 to 6 months, greenhouse) and sapling growth (2-3 years, greenhouse and field, 49Â°44'N, 79Â°17'W). Seeds, seedlings and saplings were subjected to different treatments: 3 types of ground cover (bare soil, feather mosses, Sphagnum spp. mosses), different levels of fertilization, and different levels of shade above the moss layer. The dataset also contains information on the chemical composition (N, P, K, Ca, Mg, Na, cation base) of the first centimeters of soil below the moss layer (data for greenhouse and field experiments)."
3737,"At the end of each fiscal year, financial information is published in the Public Accounts. This dataset presents upcoming minimum leases payments for the next five years by ministry."
10520,The table provides an inventory of all Canadian federal institutions and relevant corporate interests by ministerial portfolio and institutional form.
5727,Provincial government revenue and expenditure
5790,"Number of earners, by sex and work activity"
2174,"Systematic air quality measurements were made in the study region of Toronto during the 2015 Pan-Am games (July 14th – July 29th).  These measurements were done using the mobile lab CRUISER (Canadian Regional and Urban Investigation System for Environmental Research) to identify emission sources for characterization and emission inventory development.  The measurements included several trace gases (NOx, SO2, CO, VOCs, CO2, CH4, and black carbon), air toxics (H2S, aromatics), atmospheric particles, particle composition and meteorological parameters.  Additionally, the measurements were systematically designed to cover 18 sub-regions in and around the Greater Toronto Area multiple times so as to cover the different exposure settings such as traffic, industry, residential, commercial, etc.  These data aim to provide a good sample of measurements needed for atmospheric air quality model development."
5544,"Balance of international payments, current account, investment income, by type and sector"
23,"Provides information on the travel and hospitality expenses incurred within Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada by the Minister, Parliamentary Secretary, and their exempt staff, and by senior level employees at the Deputy Minister, Associate Deputy Minister, Assistant Deputy Minister, and equivalent levels."
122,"This data set includes the following information: Project number; Applicant name; Status (e.g., Comments/Issues); Requested funding; Recommended funding; Approved funding CA funding. Projects are one-year in length."
3331,"The Decisions dataset provides information on the number of conditional release decisions taken by the PBC during a given period. Items found in this dataset include, among others, location, final decision, jurisdiction, decision purpose, sentence type, review type, race, gender and offence type."
4599,"Merchandise import and export, customs-based price index, weighted for all countries and the United States, by Standard International Trade Classification (SITC)"
2495,"The minimum wage is a basic labour standard that sets the lowest wage rate that an employer can pay to employees who are covered by the legislation. Today, one of its main purposes is to protect non-unionized workers in unskilled jobs, although it can also influence, directly or indirectly, the level of compensation of other employees as well."
10149,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
10004,"Employment services, summary statistics, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
8058,"1990 based estimates, industrial consumption of energy (ICE), energy fuel consumption of manufacturing industries in natural units, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
4390,Recoverable subbituminous coal and lignite reserves
5145,"The Road Network File is a digital representation of Canada's road network, containing information such as street names, types, directions and address ranges. "
5085,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
1197,"The Proceedings Series contains publications which record the activities at meetings or workshops of which DFO is a sponsor. The Proceedings generally record decisions, recommendations, and major points of discussion at these meetings and workshops. Formats in the Proceedings Series are flexible, to accommodate the many types of meetings which must be covered. In all cases an objective is to reflect in the Proceedings the diversity of opinion present in the discussions at the meeting or workshop."
2356,"The Air Pollutant Emission Inventory (APEI) is an annual report of air pollutant emissions across Canada published by Environment and Climate Change Canada. The report details the release of air pollutants from all known of sources since 1990. The APEI serves many purposes, including:

-supporting the development of air quality management strategies, policies and regulations.
-fulfilling Canada’s domestic and international reporting obligations.
-informing Canadians about pollutants that affect their health and the environment.
-providing data to support air quality forecasting.

Emissions data is available for the following 17 air pollutants for the years 1990-2014:

Criteria air contaminants (CACs):
-Total particulate matter (TPM)
-Particulate matter less than or equal to 10 microns (PM10)
-Particulate matter less than or equal to 2.5 microns (PM2.5)
-Sulphur oxides (SOx)
-Nitrogen oxides (NOx)
-Volatile organic compounds (VOCs)
-Carbon monoxide (CO)
-Ammonia (NH3)

Heavy metals: 
-Mercury (Hg)
-Lead (Pb)
-Cadmium (Cd)

Persistent organic pollutants (POPs): 
-Dioxins and furans (D/F)
-Four polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) compounds (Benzo[a]pyrene, Benzo[b]fluoranthene, Benzo[k]fluoranthene and Indeno[1,2,3-cd]pyrene)
-Hexachlorobenzene (HCB)

This data record breaks down the 1993 emissions of all reported pollutants for Canada by province and territory. To view historical trends of individual substances, please visit the Air Pollutant Emission Inventory Historical Trends data record. To perform more customized selections of APEI data, please visit our website to use our interactive query tool.

The Air Pollutant Emission Inventory is compiled from many different data sources. Emissions data reported by individual facilities to Environment and Climate Change Canada’s National Pollutant Release Inventory are supplemented with well documented, science-based estimation tools to quantify total emissions. Together these data sources provide a comprehensive overview of pollutant emissions across Canada."
6167,"Canadian passenger bus and urban transit industries, maintenance cost, by type of vehicle"
5278,"Average hourly wages of employees by selected characteristics and occupation, unadjusted data, by province (monthly)"
3701,"At the end of each fiscal year, financial information is published in the Public Accounts. This dataset, based on its Volume 1, provides a ten year comparison of financial information (in millions of dollars). It includes data taken from the following tables: Table 1.1 — Detailed Consolidated Statement of Operations and Accumulated Deficit; Table 1.2: — Detailed Consolidated Statement of Financial Position; Table 1.3 — Consolidated Statement of Change in Net Debt; Table 1.4 — Detailed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow; Table 1.5 — Detailed Consolidated Statement of Non-Budgetary Transactions and of Non-Financial Assets; Table 1.6 — Detailed Consolidated Statement of Foreign Exchange, Unmatured Debt and Cash Transactions. This dataset is from the Public Accounts of Canada and is not the official record of information. The official version of record can be found on the Receiver General website for the most recent fiscal year and the Library and Archives website for historical years. "
6005,"Smoking status, by age group and sex, household population aged 12 and over, Canada and provinces"
6420,"Property and casualty insurance companies statements of estimated assets, liabilities and shareholders' equity"
1231,"Polygons denoting concentrations of sea pens, small and large gorgonian corals and sponges on the east coast of Canada have been identified through spatial analysis of research vessel survey by-catch data following an approach used by the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Organization (NAFO) in the Regulatory Area (NRA) on Flemish Cap and southeast Grand Banks. Kernel density analysis was used to identify high concentrations and the area occupied by successive catch weight thresholds was used to identify aggregations. These analyses were performed for each of the five biogeographic zones of eastern Canada. The largest sea pen fields were found in the Laurentian Channel as it cuts through the Gulf of St. Lawrence, while large gorgonian coral forests were found in the Eastern Arctic and on the northern Labrador continental slope. Large ball-shaped Geodia spp. sponges were located along the continental slopes north of the Grand Banks, while on the Scotian Shelf a unique population of the large barrel-shaped sponge Vazella pourtalesi was identified. The latitude and longitude marking the positions of all tows which form these and other dense aggregations are provided along with the positions of all tows which captured black coral, a non-aggregating taxon which is long-lived and vulnerable to fishing pressures.  These polygons identify sea pen fields from the broader distribution of sea pens in the Northern Gulf region as sampled by Campelen trawl gear in the Gulf biogeographic zone. A 7 kg minimum threshold for the sea pen catch was identified as the weight that separated the sea pen field habitat from the broader distribution of sea pens with these research vessel tow data and gear type."
8440,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
7095,"Farm business cash flow account, and ratios"
6065,"Labour force survey estimates (LFS), hourly wage distributions of employees by type of work, North American Industry Classification System (NAICS), and sex"
7091,"Registered apprenticeship training, completions by major trade groups and sex"
9751,"Distribution of the household population by musculoskeletal fitness classification, by sex and age group"
369,"This dataset defines the geographic extent of research centre parcel(s) administrated by Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada.These listings are not, under any circumstances, to be used as a substitute for legal property descriptions and professional legal advice"
8131,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
9011,"Private pension assets of family units, by selected characteristics"
8372,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
6503,"Survey of innovation and business strategy, enterprises that exported or attempted to export goods or provide services outside of Canada, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and enterprise size, all surveyed industries"
9535,Traveller accommodation services price index
2290,Data of total mercury measured every 15 minutes.
9536,Financial market statistics
10489,"Child and spousal support, by payment compliance, by province and territory"
6246,"Financial market summary, seasonally adjusted at annual rates"
10127,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
8247,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
2703,A text listing of all assigned call signs and the associated amateurs and sponsored clubs. Amateur qualifications and addresses are also included. 
5099,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
883,"Individual Tax Statistics by Area data present personal income tax data based on geographic area. The statistics are compiled by province and territory, as well as for all of Canada. The tables provide income and taxation statistics by specific geographic area, tax status classification, total income class, source of income class, and sex. The Individual Tax Statistics by Area publication for the 2014 tax year is comprised of four tables compiled from the Income Tax and Benefit Returns processed for the 2014 tax year. The dollar amount fields contain the most recent tax year assessment or reassessment information of all 2014 tax returns assessed up to June 30, 2016. Individual Tax Statistics by Area data are also published on the Canada Revenue Agency (CRA) website. Please consult the CRA website for an explanation of changes that have been incorporated to these tables."
5137,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
7909,"Socioeconomic overview of the farm population, number of operators per farm by class of worker and sex"
2828,"The Lower Canada Land Petitions contain petitions for grants or leases of land and other administrative records. This research tool provides access to more than 95,000 references to individuals who lived in present-day Quebec between 1626 and 1865."
5398,"Film and video distribution, summary statistics"
1172,"This dataset provides continually updated official Government of Canada advice and information to help ensure the safety and well-being of Canadians travelling and living abroad, with a focus on the Security, Entry/Exit Requirements, Health, Laws & Culture, Natural Disasters & Climate, and Help Abroad of destinations around the world."
4854,"The Road Network File is a digital representation of Canada's road network, containing information such as street names, types, directions and address ranges. "
1217,"Displays Tide and Water Level stations in Canada. Features links to predictions, observed real-time data, observed archived data, and benchmark information."
6758,"Consumer Price Index (CPI), seasonally adjusted movement, 2001 basket content"
2327,"Map of Canada showing location of facilities reporting direct releases to surface waters, by sector, and reported total quantities of these releases.

The National Pollutant Release Inventory (NPRI) is Canada's public inventory of pollutant releases (to air, water and land), disposals and transfers for recycling. Under the authority of the Canadian Environmental Protection Act, 1999 (CEPA 1999), owners or operators of facilities in Canada that meet the published reporting requirements are required to report to the NPRI.  Reported pollutants include toxic substances, air pollutants and other substances of concern.

NPRI data is available for the years 1993 - 2014 in a number of formats including online query tools, downloadable datasets (along with corresponding database structure tables) and map layers.

There are important factors that should be considered prior to the use and interpretation of NPRI data.  Additional information is available on the NPRI web site."
3526,"First Official Language Spoken (FOLS) is a linguistic concept derived from three census questions on language (knowledge of official languages, mother tongue and home language). Multiple responses are distributed equally among declared languages by different levels of geographies."
9289,"Diabetes, by age group and sex, household population aged 12 and over, Canada, provinces, territories, health regions (June 2003 boundaries) and peer groups"
5042,"Aboriginal peoples survey, harvesting activities by age group and sex, Inuit population aged 15 years and over, Canada and Inuit Nunangat"
8750,"Persons with disabilities, by age group and sex"
7309,"Contact with telephone health line, by sex, household population aged 15 and over, Canada, provinces and territories"
5077,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
4249,"This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses._x000D__x000D_
Geography:_x000D_
Census Metropolitan Areas and Census Agglomerations; Tracted Census Agglomerations and Census Tracts;  Canada, Provinces and Territories, Census Divisions, Census Subdivisions and Dissemination Areas; Designated Places; Population Centres; Economic Regions; Aggregate Dissemination Areas"
10757,"The TSB is publishing selected fields from its Marine Safety Information System (MARSIS) so that this information can be used by industry and the public in order to advance transportation safety. The marine data files allows you to view accidents and incidents that have been reported to the TSB since 1 January 2004. The data provided in the marine data file is described in the accompanying data dictionary. TSB data is collected according to the mandatory occurrence reporting requirements described in the TSB Regulations. On 1 July 2014, the TSB issued new regulations that changed some reporting requirements. Data prior to this date were collected under the reporting requirements described in the TSB Regulations in effect at that time. This marine data file will normally be generated on the 15th of each month. Basic information about each new occurrence in the previous month is available by the date of publication. Further factual information is added when available. As this data is pulled from a live database that captures the results of ongoing investigations, historical data is subject to change, with the oldest data being the most stable. Further, as many occurrences are not investigated formally, information recorded on some occurrences may not have been verified. The scope of what is published will evolve as the TSB gains more experience in publishing this type of data."
6306,"Survey of Maintenance Enforcement Programs (SMEP), number of enforcement actions by fiscal year quarter"
6490,"Fertilizer shipments to Canadian agriculture markets, by nutrient content and fertilizer year, cumulative data"
5375,"Agriculture balance sheet, summary, by farm type"
2632,The consumer insolvency rate is defined as the number of consumer insolvencies per thousand residents aged 18 years or above. The business insolvency rate is defined as the number of business insolvencies per thousand businesses. Annual insolvency rates are available for consumers starting from 1987 and for businesses starting from 1998. [Office of the Superintendent of Bankruptcy Canada].
8713,"This table provides statistical information about people in Canada by their demographic, social and economic characteristics as well as provide information about the housing units in which they live."
3357,"The Conditional Release Appeal Decisions dataset provides information on the number and results of decisions rendered by the PBC Appeal Division during a given period. Decisions are sorted according to location and final decision. Items found in this dataset include, among others, jurisdiction, decision purpose, sentence type, review type, race, gender and offence type."
2714,"Through the Provincial-Territorial Infrastructure Base Fund, each jurisdiction receives base funding to address its core infrastructure priorities. All provinces and territories benefit from this investment in modern public infrastructure, particularly jurisdictions with smaller populations."
4438,"Health behaviour in school-aged children 2002, student response to question: How many computers does your family own?"
8652,"The boundary files portray the geographic limits used for census dissemination. They are available for download in two types: cartographic and digital. Cartographic boundary files depict the geographic areas using only the shorelines of the major land mass of Canada and its coastal islands. Digital boundary files depict the full extent of the geographic areas, including the coastal water area. The files provide a framework for mapping and spatial analysis using commercially available geographic information systems (GIS) or other mapping software."
2535,Results of reclassifications
6128,"Youth custody and community services (YCCS), admissions to correctional services, by most serious offence"
2670,This data draws from public information maintained by Natural Resources Canada as part of the Canadian Geographical Names Database and public information maintained by Crown-Indigenous Relations and Northern Affairs Canada.
3073,"The Atlas of Canada National Scale Data 1:5,000,000 Series consists of boundary, coast, island, place name, railway, river, road, road ferry and waterbody data sets that were compiled to be used for atlas medium scale (1:5,000,000 to 1:15,000,000) mapping. These data sets have been integrated so that their relative positions are cartographically correct. Any data outside of Canada included in the data sets is strictly to complete the context of the data."
5089,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
273,"Average accumulated precipitation between April 1 and October 31 is based on the period between 1974 and 2003. This analysis was based on temperature values interpolated at 10 km using the ANUSPLIN method, based on data from the Ministère du Développement durable, de l'Environnement et des Parcs du Québec and from Environment Canada.The water inflow provided by precipitation is an index used in a number of production sectors, to manage plot irrigation, evaluation of the agricultural potential of a given region and leaching of pesticides, for example. Accumulated precipitation in the form of rain can be calculated on an annual or monthly basis or over a specific period: for example, from April to October to correspond generally with the growing season. Quantities of rain are thus calculated for a selected territory on a variable time scale. It is important that careful attention be paid to the scale when interpreting the observed weather data. As an example, the accumulation of small quantities of rain on a regular basis over a long period may be equivalent to a higher amount of rain falling during a shorter period, but the impact on the crop is not the same."
8706,"This table provides statistical information about people in Canada by their demographic, social and economic characteristics as well as provide information about the housing units in which they live."
8299,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
4749,"International investment position, portfolio investment in Canadian bonds, book and market values, by sector"
6963,"Self-reported youth body mass index (BMI), by age group and sex, household population aged 12 to 17 excluding pregnant females, Canada, provinces, territories, health regions (June 2005 boundaries) and peer groups"
3655,Public Safety public facing website containing all proactive disclosures related to contracts disclosed to the public
3083,"The Atlas of Canada National Scale Data 1:15,000,000 Series consists of boundary, coast and coastal islands, place name, railway, river, road, road ferry and waterbody data sets that were compiled to be used for atlas small scale (1:15,000,000 and 1:30,000,000) mapping. These data sets have been integrated so that their relative positions are cartographically correct. Any data outside of Canada included in the data sets is strictly to complete the context of the data."
9153,"Life expectancy, abridged life table, at birth and at age 65, by sex, Canada, provinces, territories and health regions"
7613,"Contact with medical doctors, by age group and sex, household population aged 12 and over, Canada, provinces, territories, health regions (January 2000 boundaries) and peer groups"
9537,"Investment dealers statements of estimated assets, liabilities and shareholders' equity"
5766,"Police-reported hate crime, by most serious violation, Canada"
9621,"Department of National Defence, military personnel seasonally unadjusted and adjusted, and wages and salaries"
8777,"Internet use by individuals, by Internet privacy concern and age"
2862,"This file contains data from a 1971 survey undertaken to gather information on non-resident tourist parties exiting Nova Scotia. These datasets have been converted from their legacy file structures and encoding schemes so they can be used by contemporary computers that are based upon the ASCII character-encoding scheme. Each dataset will require specialized software such as a statistical tool, to interpret and analyze the content in each file. The attached codebook describes the file’s structure and defines the variables contained in each field. Each code book is a compilation of the summary description of the dataset as provided by the creating department.  As such, it is available in English only."
6158,"Investment funds, investment portfolio at market value"
4431,"Gross domestic product (GDP) at factor cost, by Standard Industrial Classification, 1980 (SIC) and province"
6555,"Income and outlay account, persons and unincorporated business, outlay, 1968 System of National Accounts (SNA)"
4736,"Consulting services, summary statistics"
2708,"The SIBS provides detailed information about various business strategies and practices that determine business innovation, such as an enterprise's strategic orientation, its management practices (including global value chain management practices), its use of advanced technology, and its marketplace and competitive environment. It provides important information on state of innovation in Canada that can then be benchmarked with other OECD countries. "
10140,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
6319,"United States gross national product (GNP), by sector, seasonally adjusted at annual rates"
1607,Images of A. Salmon scales and raw data from W. Greenland fishery and home water stocks of various countries. Purpose: Stock assessment/research papers.
6157,Merchandise imports and exports balance of payments-based price and volume indexes for all countries
1308,"This database includes photographs, video, and acoustic recordings obtained from studies of Scotian Shelf northern bottlenose whales, primarily from research carried out in the Gully Marine Protected Area (MPA) by Hal Whitehead of Dalhousie University but also including research carried about by DFO. Much of this data only existed in non-digital formats (i.e., film negatives, VHS video tapes and magnetic tape recordings), thus digitization of these media types is a major component of this project. This database will be maintained by DFO and linked to the DFO Maritimes Region cetacean sightings database.
PURPOSE: The purpose of this project was to build a Scotian Shelf northern bottlenose whale digital multimedia database in order to make data obtained from this population more assessable to scientists, managers, communications and the general public."
6528,"Flows and stocks of fixed non-residential capital, total all industries, by asset, provinces and territories"
10290,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
519,"List of foreign processors which have demonstrated a history of poor compliance with Canadian standards
When a product fails an analysis, subsequent imports of lots subject to the same hazard are tested for that analysis until four consecutive lots are found acceptable. "
2113,"IP3, 'Improved Processes and Parameterization for Prediction in Cold Regions', operated from 2006 to 2011 as a research network with a prime objective of improving understanding of cold regions hydrometeorology. The project conducted wide-ranging studies of surface-water and weather systems, based on field investigations in Canada's Rocky Mountains and the Western Arctic, with the aim of enhancing the capabilities of a suite of operational software models."
7292,"Chartered banks, regional distribution of selected assets and liabilities, at end of period, Canada, provinces and international, Bank of Canada"
6979,"Estimates of population, census divisions and census metropolitan areas (component method), 1981 census boundaries"
9325,"Capital and operating expenditures on environmental protection, by type of activity and establishment size, Canada"
558,Temporary residents who are in Canada on a work permit or study permit in the observed calendar year. Datasets include Temporary Foreign Worker Program (TFWP) and International Mobility Program (IMP) work permit and study permit holders by year in which permit(s) became effective.
6362,"Adoption of bioproducts, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and enterprise size"
7275,"Student response to question: Is there anything about your body you would like to change, by sex, age group and selected countries"
885,"Individual Tax Statistics by Forward Sortation Area data present personal income tax data based on forward sortation areas. The statistics are compiled by province and territory, as well as for all of Canada. These data tables provide income statistics, Tax-Free Savings Account (TFSA) statistics, Goods and Services Tax/Harmonized Sales Tax (GST/HST) credit statistics, Child Care Benefit (CCB) statistics by specific geographic area, income range, source of income, age and sex for the 2015 tax year. Individual Tax Statistics by Forward Sortation Area data are also published on the Canada Revenue Agency (CRA) website. Please consult the CRA website for an explanation of changes that have been incorporated to these tables."
10751,"This dataset is to publicly disclose, on an as needed basis, all the founded wrong doings, which includes the following components: Summarize the wrongdoing; List the recommendations made to the chief executive; Indicate the corrective action recommended; and Describe the implementation of the correction action"
6712,"Average weekly earnings (SEPH), unadjusted for seasonal variation, by type of employee for selected industries classified using the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
5127,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
10247,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
1149,This file contains information about the former CIDA's annual forward planning budget and links to key documents such as strategies and reports published on DFATD's website.
4655,"Census of Agriculture, Christmas trees"
5294,"Population, urban and rural, by province and territory"
196,"The Canada Land Inventory (CLI), 1:000,000, Land Limitation for Agriculture dataset illustrates the varying potential of a specific area for agricultural production. Classes of land capability for agriculture are based on mineral soils grouped according to their potential and limitations for agricultural use. The classes indicate the degree of limitation imposed by the soil in its use for mechanized agriculture. The subclasses indicate the kinds of limitations that individually or in combination with others, are affecting agricultural land use. Characteristics of the soil as determined by soil surveys."
4678,"Annual wholesale trade survey, financial estimates by trade group based on the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
7251,"Survey of electronic commerce and technology, enterprises that have a Web site on the Internet, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
2985,fuel consumption ratings by year
1468,"Catch, effort, and location (latitude, longitude) data from ground fish multi-species bottom trawl surveys."
9762,"International investment position, foreign portfolio investment in Canadian bonds and Canadian money market instruments, by sector and geographic region"
8516,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
9139,Recoverable reserves of bituminous coal
3727,"At the end of each fiscal year, financial information is published in the Public Accounts. This dataset presents the liability balances of the custodian departments and Crown corporations for remediation liabilities for contaminated sites, asset retirement obligations and other environmental liabilities."
8159,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
3347,"The Conditional Release Appeal Decisions dataset provides information on the number and results of decisions rendered by the PBC Appeal Division during a given period. Decisions are sorted according to location and final decision. Items found in this dataset include, among others, jurisdiction, decision purpose, sentence type, review type, race, gender and offence type."
9384,"Canadian vehicle survey, number of buses, by year of vehicle model, province and territory"
8623,"The Road Network File is a digital representation of Canada's road network, containing information such as street names, types, directions and address ranges. "
776,CIHR Grant and Award Details for the year 2000-01 up to 2015-16 (as of 20160910)
9969,"Industrial product price indexes for lumber, sawmill and other wood products, furniture and fixtures, paper and paper products, printing and publishing industries"
6024,"Health behaviour in school-aged children 2002, student response to question: Have you ever used or taken cannabis?"
7515,"Mortgage accounts of trust companies, mortgage companies, and real estate investment trusts"
1516,"The Pacific Region ERAF provides a comprehensive approach for assessing all threats to marine ecosystems by evaluating cumulative risk from multiple activities to multiple ecosystem components for ecosystem-based management (EBM), improving upon international and national best practices in risk assessment that focus solely on single activities (e.g., ERAFs for assessing fisheries impacts) or single ecosystem-components (e.g., habitat-based risk assessments).  This project applies the Level 2 Risk Assessment framework (O et al. 2015) to the SGaan Kinghlas-Bowie Seamount Marine Protected Area (SKB MPA) to determine the relative risk to the SKB MPA ecosystem from anthropogenic activities."
7981,"International transactions in services, transportation by category"
1730,"Catch, effort and discard information from capelin fishermen from various bays throughout Newfoundland. Purpose: Capelin research and stock assessment."
4341,"Capital finance account , government, source, 1968 System of National Accounts (SNA)"
6081,"Incident-based crime statistics, by detailed violations and police services, British Columbia"
6935,"Canadian vehicle survey, passenger-kilometres, by type of vehicle and type of road"
2613,"The Canadian Radiological Monitoring Network – Environmental dosimetry This dataset provides the background radiation dose results from Health Canada’s Canadian Radiological Monitoring Network (CRMN) monitoring sites. More information about the CRMN network can be found here: http://www.hc-sc.gc.ca/ewh-semt/contaminants/radiation/crmn-rcsr/index-eng.php. This background radiation data contains both “monitoring” and “transit” dosimeters starting in 2015. The historical background radiation dose data can be found here: http://open.canada.ca/data/en/dataset/dc69b741-bcd4-4e0c-a3d3-f25bf9f34f03. A transit dosimeter is sent along with the monitoring dosimeter to determine if there is a significant dose recorded by the dosimeter while it is in transit to the sampling station. The transit dosimeter is shipped out with a station monitor, and shipped back with the station monitor from the previous quarter. The monitoring dosimeters are deployed over a longer time (around three months) than the transit dosimeters (around 3 weeks). This difference largely explains the lower recorded dose values for the transit dosimeter. The results provided for the monitoring and transit dosimeters are expressed as absorbed dose calibrated with a cesium source in units of millisieverts (mSv). The accuracy of the dosimeters is estimated to be ± 15%. The external dose can be attributed almost exclusively to natural radiation (of terrestrial and cosmic origin) with fluctuations based on several factors including location, soil characteristics, and seasonal changes. "
3979,"Corporate short-term paper outstanding, Bank of Canada"
1380,"Digital photos of field work, specimens, work activities."
3560,This application is used by all federal departments requesting for their staff accommodation before taking a test.  PPC provides recommendations report.
15,Provides data about the amount of claims submitted for the Canadian Agricultural Loans Act (CALA) Program.
2379,Listing of Service Canada offices with information such as address and types of services offered. This directly feeds the Find a Service Canada Office Internet tool.
6055,"Socioeconomic overview of the farm population, number of operators per farm by sources of operator total income and age"
5635,"Income and outlay account, government, outlay, 1968 System of National Accounts (SNA)"
5788,"Resident-days in residential care facilities, by responsibility for payment, principal characteristic of predominant group of residents and size of facility, Canada, provinces and territories"
6975,"Survey of innovation and business strategy, types of product innovation introduced, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and enterprise size, all surveyed industries"
32,"Provides details on the number of tickets, the source, the methods that the requests were received, the severity of the issues, the resolution time and other factors."
7975,"Police officers by rank and gender, municipal police services"
1617,"CTD and XBT from Newfoundland region . Data type are Pressure, temperature, Conductivity, Salinity, Dissolved Oxygen, Florescence, PAR, pH. Purpose: Ocean climate monitoring."
2152,"Marine Programs assesses the proposals for ocean disposal of various materials and is responsible for environmental effects monitoring at disposal sites. Data types are dominated by points and polygons identifying site locations; physical, chemical, and biological data characterizing marine sediments; rasters generated by geophysical surveys of the seabed; type and quantity of substances that are disposed of at sea; and video. Data are generally received in GIS ready formats. **NOTE** only certain data sets are eligible for publication release, not all datasets."
4292,"Chartered banks, Canadian cash reserves and liquid assets"
8720,"This profile presents information from the 2011 National Household Survey (NHS) for various levels of geography, including provinces and territories, census metropolitan areas/census agglomerations, census divisions, census subdivisions, census tracts and federal electoral districts.  NHS data topics include: Immigration and Ethnocultural Diversity; Aboriginal Peoples; Education and Labour; Mobility and Migration; Language of work; Income and Housing."
6909,"Body mass index (BMI) based on self-reported height and weight, by age group and sex, household population aged 18 and over excluding pregnant females, (CCHS 3.1, January to June 2005), Canada, provinces and health regions (June 2005 boundaries)"
10518,"This data provides information on the travel and hospitality expenses incurred within the Treasury Board of Canada Secretariat by the President, Parliamentary Secretary, and their exempt staff, and by senior level employees at the Deputy Minister, Associate Deputy Minister, Assistant Deputy Minister, and equivalent levels."
5678,Work absence statistics of full-time employees by sex and job tenure
3271,"National Forestry Database - datasets on forest fires in Canada. Dataset organised by area burned, number of fires, cause class, response category, protection zone, jurisdiction, month, fires size class, and other variables. "
6883,"Breast self-examinations, by age group, females aged 18 and over, selected provinces, territories and health regions (January 2000 boundaries)"
1213,"The Species at Risk (SAR) Program is responsible for carrying out DFO’s mandate under the Species at Risk Act (SARA) to protect, recover and conserve all listed aquatic SAR in Canada. Critical habitat is identified for species listed as Endangered or Threatened under the Species at Risk Act (SARA). Critical habitat is defined under section 2 of SARA as: ""the habitat that is necessary for the survival or recovery of a listed wildlife species and that is identified as the species' critical habitat in the recovery strategy or in an action plan for the species"". Section 49(1)(a) of SARA requires that a species' Recovery Strategy/Action Plan include an identification of the species' critical habitat to the extent possible, based on the best available information, including information provided by the Committee on the Status of Endangered Wildlife in Canada (COSEWIC). SARA makes it illegal to destroy any part of the critical habitat of SAR and may impose restrictions on development and construction. Critical habitats were assembled by SARA regional biologists and recovery teams. They are designed to support the protection and recovery of species listed as Endangered or Threatened under the Species at Risk Act. They are also described and displayed in species' Recovery Documents and Action Plans."
7918,"Commercial and industrial machinery and equipment rental and leasing, sales, by type of client based on the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
3660,A list of Canadian General Standards Board surveys of the  public and the standards committee membership on specific projects to see if the documentation is still required.  The list contain the responses to the survey questions.
4346,"Building permits, dwelling units by type of structure and value by activity sector, economic regions"
7905,Supply and disposition of creamery butter and cheddar cheese
7755,"Body mass index (BMI), International standard, by age group and sex, household population aged 20 to 64 excluding pregnant women, Canada and provinces"
1887,"Greenland halibut catch and biological data (sampled weight, length, age, sex) collected by the dockside monitoring program of commercial catches in the Estuary and Gulf of St. Lawrence since 1983."
9716,"Selected United States dollar interest rates, last Wednesday unless otherwise stated, Bank of Canada"
10264,"The Road Network File is a digital representation of Canada's road network, containing information such as street names, types, directions and address ranges. "
532,A monthly and crop year to-date review of grains and wheat flour exported to country of destination. Includes port and sector points of exit.
4068,Value of proven and probable potash reserves
257,The “Terrestrial Ecozones of Canada” dataset provides representations of ecozones. An ecozone is the top level of the four levels of ecosystems that the National Ecological Framework for Canada defines. The framework divides Canada into 15 terrestrial ecozones that define its ecological mosaic on a sub-continental scale. Ecozones represent an area of the earth’s surface as large and very generalized ecological units. These units are characterized by interactive and adjusting abiotic and biotic factors.
6757,"Census of Agriculture, paid agricultural work, Canada and provinces"
6170,"Mortality, by selected causes of death and sex, Canada, provinces, territories and health regions"
7136,"Household energy consumption, Canada and provinces"
3441,Contains a complete list of National Parks and National Historic Sites
5126,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
5591,"Motion picture theatres, theatre operations"
4893,"Postsecondary graduates, by tongue, sex and Classification of Instructional Programs, Primary Grouping (CIP_PG)"
6209,"General social survey (GSS), average time spent on various activities for the population aged 15 years and over, by sex and main activity"
5425,"Population 15 years and over by hours spent looking after children, without pay, by sex, by province and territory (2006 Census)"
4874,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
6046,"Canadian business patterns, location counts, employment size and North American Industry Classification System (NAICS), national industries, by Canada and provinces, December 2013"
9516,"Television viewing time of all television stations, by province, content and type of programme"
2627,A series of health-related data sets from various quantitative public opinion research studies. 
8968,"Consumer Price Index, by city"
5443,"Influenza immunization, less than one year ago by age group and sex"
2977,fuel consumption ratings by year
1085,Religious Affiliations for Inmate Population would be defined as the breakdown by religious affiliation of the inmate population of CSC. 
8557,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
4800,Machinery and equipment price indexes (MEPI)
6882,"United States Consumer Price Index (CPI), seasonally adjusted"
4135,"Survey of innovation and business strategy, enterprises that manufactured goods, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and enterprise size, all surveyed industries"
6717,"Student response to question: During the past 12 months were you hurt or injured and had to be treated by a doctor or a nurse, by sex, age group and selected countries"
10286,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
2652,"The Credit Conditions Survey focuses on financing sought by small businesses (1 to 99 employees). This dataset includes information on: request rates, approval rates, type of financing, debt financing (short vs. long term), debt financing by enterprise characteristics, intended use of debt financing, and capital re-investment levels. "
8743,"Principal lakes, elevation and area, by province and territory"
4233,"Operation and maintenance costs of drinking water plants, for Canada, provinces, territories and drainage regions"
3190,A research project whose objective is to monitor processes affecting old softwood stands in the eastern boreal forest. Plots of 1 ha.
3299,Dominion Astrophysical Observatory (DAO) Spectroscopic Plate Archive held in the Canadian Astronomy Data Center (CADC)
6996,"Federal, provincial and territorial general government revenue and expenditures, for fiscal year ending March 31"
3151,Great Lakes Forestry Centre - photographic archive
1151,"Imports of eggs & egg products into Canada are subject to controls under Canada’s Export and Import Permits Act (EIPA). In this dataset you will find information and data on the administration of Canada's import controls on those commodities. In particular, the Notices to Importers detail the policies and practices of the Department and which products are covered."
2521,Listing of all FedDev Ontario's IRBVs 
9193,"Socioeconomic overview of the farm population, income classes of census and economic families on unincorporated farms by the sources of income in the year prior to the census"
8854,"Employment, health care and social assistance, by province and territory"
5069,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
7571,"International transactions in securities, portfolio transactions in Canadian and foreign securities, by geographic area"
7669,"Mammogram obtained within the last 2 years, by age group, females aged 50 to 69 years, Canada, provinces, territories, health regions (June 2005 boundaries) and peer groups"
9683,"Divorces, by marital status of husband and of wife just prior to marriage, Canada, provinces and territories"
1868,Catch data and biological measures of American lobsters and rock crabs from scientific surveys. Data are collected by trawl in the Magdalen Islands in September since 1995.
402,"This data product represents the weekly volumetric soil moisture (percent saturated soil) for the surface layer (<5 cm). The data is produced from passive microwave satellite data collected by the Soil Moisture and Ocean Salinity (SMOS) satellite and converted to soil moisture using version 6.20 of the SMOS soil moisture processor. The data are produced by the European Space Agency and obtained under a Category 1 proposal for Level 2 soil moisture data. The data are gridded to a resolution of 0.25 degrees. Data quality flags have been applied to remove areas where rainfall is present during the acquisition, where snow cover is detected and when Radio Frequency Interference (RFI) is above an acceptable threshold."
8278,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
7568,"Households and the environment survey, environmental engagement, by type of household, Canada"
1718,"Length frequency data collected from domestic and some foreign commercial groundfish fisheries, index fisheries, food fisheries and discard surveys. Purpose: Data is used in the analysis of various aspects of the commercial fisheries and in stock assessments."
7898,"Income from accommodation and sundry earnings in residential care facilities, by principal characteristic of the predominant group of residents and size of facility, Canada, provinces and territories"
10547,Published statistics on purchases made and contracts entered into by federal departments and agencies.
8760,"Production of milk and cream, by province"
5335,"Domestic air fares, selected cities of enplanement (quarterly)"
6822,"Unemployment rates of 25- to 29-year-olds, by educational attainment, Canada and provinces"
4953,"Experienced labour force 15 years and over by occupation and sex, by census metropolitan areas (2006 Census)"
8230,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
7948,"Main source of financing for capital expenditures in advanced technologies between 2012 and 2014, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and enterprise size"
9655,"Total water costs in manufacturing industries, by water cost component and by provinces, territories and drainage regions"
9268,"For-hire motor carrier freight services price index, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
7021,"Historical statistics, mother tongues of the population"
9678,Merchandise imports and exports balance of payments and customs-based price and volume indexes for all countries
3725,"At the end of each fiscal year, financial information is published in the Public Accounts. This dataset presents the balances and transactions for the notes payable to International Organizations."
8154,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
5749,"Number of non-permanent residents, by age group and sex for July 1, Canada, provinces and territories"
8905,Population of census metropolitan areas
10582,Compilation of statistical information about access to information and privacy submitted by government institutions subject to the Access to Information Act and the Privacy Act. 
5366,"Real gross domestic product, expenditure-based"
893,This chart provides the amounts of federal and provincial (except Quebec) non-refundable tax credits commonly claimed in the 2013 Income Tax and Benefit Returns. 
325,"The “Thematic Soil Maps of Manitoba” is a revised and condensed version of the Manitoba Detailed Soils Database produced by CANSIS. It contains data relating to the soils slope, drainage, agricultural capability, erosion potential, and surface texture."
3520,"Species lists - the list of species for each protected heritage place in Parks Canada managed areas (National Parks, National Historic Sites, National Marine Conservation Areas). This includes COSEWIC assessed species and species identified by the Species at Risk Act that Parks Canada is working to help protect and recover."
7522,"Children aged 17 and under living in low-income families (1995 income) as a proportion of children aged 17 and under living in economic families, Canada, provinces, territories and health regions, 1996"
8959,"Population 5 years and over by mobility status, by census metropolitan area (2006 Census)"
146,The “Agri-Environmental Indicator (AEI) – Residual Soil Nitrogen” dataset provides a calculation of the amount of nitrogen (N) in the top 60 cm of soil at the end of the cropping season for Canadian agricultural lands.
164,"The Agri-Environmental Indicator (AEI) dataset series provides information that was created using indicators that assess the environmental impact of agricultural activities. These agri-environmental indicators integrate information on soils, climate and land surface features with statistics on land use and crop and livestock management practices. The datasets provide valuable, location-specific information on the overall environmental risks and conditions in agriculture across Canada and how these change over time. This dataset series collects AEI data that is related to geographic features and can be represented on a map. Other types of AEI data are not included. The datasets can be organized into the following major groups: • Farm land management • Soil health • Water quality • Air quality • Food and beverage industry (not included) Farm land management datasets: • Soil cover • Wildlife habitat • Farm land management (not included) Soil health datasets: • Soil erosion • Soil organic matter • Trace elements • Soil salinity Water quality datasets: • Nitrogen • Phosphorus • Coliforms • Pesticides Air quality datasets: • Greenhouse Gases • Ammonia • Particulate Matter"
6389,"Crime severity index and weighted clearance rates, by police service, Saskatchewan"
10772,"Complete inventory of all TSB information resources of business value (IRBV) including relevant information (function, activity, retention schedule, etc.)"
4693,"Labour force survey estimates (LFS), multiple jobholders by National Occupational Classification for Statistics (NOC-S), sex and age group"
2006,"Cadet Program is a relevant, credible and proactive youth development organization, offering the program of choice for Canada’s youth, preparing them to become the leaders of tomorrow through a set of fun, challenging, well-organized and safe activities.This dataset contains a partial list of the qualifications and awards that were allocated to cadets as part of the Canadian Cadet Organization. The data covers the period of 2004 to 2017 and includes the date and authority for each award and qualification."
335,"A series of 61 documents providing crop production and pest management information on a commodity basis, covering more than 30 crops."
4545,"Balance of international payments, flows of Canadian direct investment abroad and foreign direct investment in Canada, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
1942,Biological data (weight and length) of sampled species during the winter recreational fisheries in the Saguenay Fjord since 1995.
3422,"The Conditional Release Special Conditions dataset provides information on the number of special conditions imposed by the PBC in a given period. The information is sorted according to location and category of decision. Items found in this dataset include, among others, jurisdiction, sentence type, race, gender and offence type."
4311,"Canadian Internet use survey, electronic commerce, electronic orders, for Canada and regions"
1176,Record of decisions made at the monthly Committee on Resources Abroad meetings
3101,This web mapping service provides spatial reference context with an emphasis on transportation networks. It is designed especially for use as a background map in a web mapping application or geographic information system (GIS). The CBMT is available as a dynamic service(WMS) or a tiled service (ESRI REST and WMTS).
552,Temporary residents in the humanitarian population who request refugee protection upon or after arrival in Canada.
7990,"Gross domestic product (GDP) at factor cost in 1992 constant prices, by Standard Industrial Classification, 1980 (SIC)"
134,The AAFC Infrastructure Flood Mapping in Saskatchewan 1 meter Bare Earth Hillshade is are the bare earth hillshades created at a 1 m interval for the capture area of Saskatchewan. The bare earth hillshade images were derived from the bare earth DEM. The hillshades were created using a 315 degree sun azimuth and 45 degree sun angle.
7068,"Water discharge in manufacturing industries, by type of final treatment and North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
6780,"Health behaviour in school-aged children 2002, student response to question: The last time you were in a physical fight, with whom did you fight?"
3749,"At the end of each fiscal year, the Receiver general of Canada publishes financial information in the Public Accounts. This dataset summarizes the maturity and currency of borrowings by agent and non-agent enterprise Crown corporations and other government business enterprises, as at March 31"
6729,"Distribution of capital expenditures on pollution abatement and control (end-of-pipe) and pollution prevention, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and type of environmental medium, Canada"
10452,"The Road Network File is a digital representation of Canada's road network, containing information such as street names, types, directions and address ranges. "
6563,"Use of alternative tobacco products, by age group and sex, household population aged 12 and over, Canada, provinces, territories, health regions (January 2000 boundaries) and peer groups"
1398,"Information on lobster growth, movement and catch-ability. Database components: Length, sex, location.
PURPOSE: Study of growth and movement of lobster."
5035,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
4789,"Employment Insurance program (EI), beneficiaries receiving regular income benefits by province and National Occupational Classification for Statistics (NOC-S)"
2630,This data file contains the names and addresses of the radio licence holders in the Central Region. NOTE:  Superseded by the SMS Spectrum Management System (SMS) Authorization Data Extract. 
6437,"Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation, absorptions and unabsorbed inventory, newly completed dwellings, by type of dwelling unit in census metropolitan areas"
4587,"Survey of innovation, selected service industries, percentage of revenues generated by new or significantly improved products"
6305,"Biotechnology use and development survey, indicators for innovative biotechnology firms by region"
7666,"Literacy and numeracy, average scores and distribution of proficiency levels, by industry or occupation and sex, employed population aged 16 to 65, Canada, provinces and territories"
4113,Air passenger traffic and flights
628,"Temporary residents who are in Canada on a work permit or study permit in the observed calendar year. Datasets include Temporary Foreign Worker Program (TFWP) and International Mobility Program (IMP) work permit and study permit holders by year in which permit(s) became effective. Please note that in these datasets, the figures have been suppressed or rounded to prevent the identification of individuals when the datasets are compiled and compared with other publicly available statistics. Values between 0 and 5 are shown as “--“ and all other values are rounded to the nearest multiple of 5. This may result to the sum of the figures not equating to the totals indicated."
7657,"Railway transport survey, length of track operated, by area at end of year"
2569,"This dataset provides the results obtained by Health Canada’s Radiological Monitoring Network (CRMN) for the tritium activity concentration in drinking water originating from the water treatment plants in Ottawa, ON. More information about the CRMN network can be found here: http://www.hc-sc.gc.ca/ewh-semt/contaminants/radiation/crmn-rcsr/index-eng.php. The results provided are the tritium activity concentration in units of becquerels per litre (Bq/L). Although ensuring water quality is a matter of provincial jurisdiction, the CRMN, in collaboration with the city of Ottawa, has been conducting a targeted program to monitor the radiological content of drinking water from two water treatment plants in Ottawa, ON. The Guidelines for Canadian Drinking Water Quality recommend a Maximum Acceptable Concentration (MAC) for tritium in drinking water of 7000 Bq/L. The measured activity concentrations of tritium in drinking water are well below this guideline value. "
5193,"This table provides statistical information about people in Canada by their demographic, social and economic characteristics as well as provide information about the housing units in which they live."
8281,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
2168,"The Air Pollutant Emission Inventory (APEI) is an annual report of air pollutant emissions across Canada published by Environment and Climate Change Canada. The report details the release of air pollutants from all known of sources since 1990. The APEI serves many purposes, including:

-supporting the development of air quality management strategies, policies and regulations.
-fulfilling Canada’s domestic and international reporting obligations.
-informing Canadians about pollutants that affect their health and the environment.
-providing data to support air quality forecasting.

Emissions data is available for the following 17 air pollutants for the years 1990-2014:

Criteria air contaminants (CACs):
-Total particulate matter (TPM)
-Particulate matter less than or equal to 10 microns (PM10)
-Particulate matter less than or equal to 2.5 microns (PM2.5)
-Sulphur oxides (SOx)
-Nitrogen oxides (NOx)
-Volatile organic compounds (VOCs)
-Carbon monoxide (CO)
-Ammonia (NH3)

Heavy metals: 
-Mercury (Hg)
-Lead (Pb)
-Cadmium (Cd)

Persistent organic pollutants (POPs): 
-Dioxins and furans (D/F)
-Four polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) compounds (Benzo[a]pyrene, Benzo[b]fluoranthene, Benzo[k]fluoranthene and Indeno[1,2,3-cd]pyrene)
-Hexachlorobenzene (HCB)

This data record breaks down the 2009 emissions of all reported pollutants for Canada by province and territory. To view historical trends of individual substances, please visit the Air Pollutant Emission Inventory Historical Trends data record. To perform more customized selections of APEI data, please visit our website to use our interactive query tool.

The Air Pollutant Emission Inventory is compiled from many different data sources. Emissions data reported by individual facilities to Environment and Climate Change Canada’s National Pollutant Release Inventory are supplemented with well documented, science-based estimation tools to quantify total emissions. Together these data sources provide a comprehensive overview of pollutant emissions across Canada."
10592,"An inventory of data holdings of business value that support the planning and reporting requirements of the Directive on Open Government.  The inventory will be used for internal data management related program support as well as the planning, assessment, and reporting activities for the Open Data program."
8490,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
1667,"This contaminant survey study is a part of the Labrador Food Web project. The main objective was to determine the baseline metal concentrations in various important eco-system components. Sediment and water samples were collected during 1999 in the Voisey's Bay area of Labrador. Water samples were analyzed by ICP-MS (Scuex Ekab 6000) for trace elements (Li, Na, Mg, Al, Si, K Ca, V, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, Zn, As, Rb, Sr, Mo, Cd, Ba, Pb). Sediments samples were also analyzed for trace metals by ICP-MS by contract from Memorial University of Newfoundland ICP-MS facility. Purpose: Of those interested in contaminants research."
2424,"The purpose of the research was to ensure that the content is clear, relevant, useful, accurate, and complete. The research included two phases:
• A set of 12 focus groups (5 with new Canadians, 5 with settled Canadians, 2 with facilitators) conducted February 7-13 in the following locations (two groups per city): Ottawa, Montreal, Mississauga, Winnipeg, Edmonton, and Vancouver.
• 20 telephone interviews conducted with service providers February 13 to March 14."
5391,"Earnings, average weekly, by enterprise size, by province and territory"
3012,"The primary sensor on board the NOAA satellites, used for both meteorology and small-scale Earth observation and reconnaissance, is the Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR). The AVHRR sensor detects radiation in the visible, near and mid infrared, and thermal infrared portions of the electromagnetic spectrum, over a swath width of 3000 km. AVHRR data can be acquired and formatted in four operational modes, differing in resolution and method of transmission. Data can be transmitted directly to the ground and viewed as data are collected, or recorded on board the satellite for later transmission and processing. "
6679,"Labour productivity and related variables, by industry according to the Canadian System of National Accounts"
7536,"Legal aid applications, by status of applications and type of matter"
2301,Data on Science Strategy implementation activities
5259,"Visible minority population, by province and territory (2006 Census)"
8523,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
9463,"Patient satisfaction with most recent hospital care received in past 12 months, by sex, household population aged 15 and over, Canada, provinces and territories"
3682,"At the end of each fiscal year, financial information is published in the Public Accounts. This dataset provides details, by ministry, of the source and disposition of authorities related to the spending of proceeds from the disposal of surplus Crown assets."
6032,"Historical releases of retail trade, sales, chained dollars and price index based on the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
3935,"Dataset used to track and report on security inspections such as number of security inspections performed, number of inspections with compliance issues, and number of inspections with repeat infractions (i.e., more than one infraction issued to the same individual, unit or location).                                                             "
10534,"The Government of Canada's approach to advertising is guided by the principles of value for money, transparency and accountability. Cabinet approves all advertising campaigns. The data lists current year allocations. This information is updated in January, April, July and October. "
10085,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
5080,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
1514,"The Pacific Region ERAF provides a comprehensive approach for assessing all threats to marine ecosystems by evaluating cumulative risk from multiple activities to multiple ecosystem components for ecosystem-based management (EBM), improving upon international and national best practices in risk assessment that focus solely on single activities (e.g., ERAFs for assessing fisheries impacts) or single ecosystem-components (e.g., habitat-based risk assessments). This project aims to apply this ERAF in the Pacific Region to the Pacific North Coast Integrated Management Area (PNCIMA) as a pilot project to assess the feasibility and suitability of the ERAF as a tool for determining risk of harm to ecosystem components, and its usefulness for providing transparent and defensible science-based advice on prioritising ecological risk of different activities for ecosystem-based management and MPA management. Because it is based on a subset of SECs and stressors affecting PNCIMA and the resulting scores have not been vetted by experts, the results of this pilot application should not be used for policy or management decisions at this stage."
4680,Personal expenditure on goods and services
6905,"Survey of innovation and business strategy, most innovative product also highest selling product, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and enterprise size, all surveyed industries"
1215,A relative risk classification for areas delineated by Canadian Hydrographic Service chart limits.
728,"Facts and Figures 2015: Immigration Overview Temporary Residents presents the annual intake of permit holders and refugee claimants from 1994 to 2015.
 The report also shows the total count of permit holders and refugee claimants with valid permit(s) in each calendar year and the total count of permit holders and refugee claimants as at December 31st of each year. The main body of the publication consists of a series of statistical tables and charts covering the ten-year period from 2006 to 2015.
 In Facts & Figures 2015 for Temporary Residents, numbers on International Mobility Program (IMP) Work Permit Holders for Work Purposes increased due to the moving of the Post-graduate Employment Work Permit Holders population from Work Permit Holders for Study Purposes to Work Permit Holders for Work Purposes under the International Mobility Program. As a result of this, the Facts & Figures 2015 reports reflect a corresponding decrease in the number of Work Permit Holders for Study Purposes. These changes have been applied retroactively.
 The Post-Graduation Work Permit Program (PGWPP) allows students who have graduated from a participating Canadian post-secondary institution to gain valuable Canadian work experience. Skilled Canadian work experience gained through the PGWPP potentially helps graduates qualify for permanent residence in Canada through the Canadian Experience Class (CEC). 

Facts & Figures 2013 had previously counted those who held Post-Graduation Work Permits as Work Permit Holders for Study Purposes. However, Work Permit Holders for Study Purposes is a category for individuals who are primarily students and who are also allowed to get a work permit (e.g., Co-op students) because it is integral to their course of studies. To get a PGWP, in contrast, an individual must have ceased to be a student – it is a requirement that the individual must have graduated from their program."
2560,"Quarterly financial data is a subset of the master financial data.  Quarterly financial data is used to populate FINTRAC’S Quarterly Financial Report (QFR), which is published on FINTRAC’s website."
10310,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
379,"The National Ecological Framework for Canada's ""Soil Texture by Ecoprovince” dataset contains tables that provide soil texture information within the ecoprovince framework polygon. It provides soil texture codes and their English and French language descriptions as well as the percentage of the polygon that the component occupies. Soil texture indicates the relative proportions of the various soil separates (sand, silt, clay) as described by classes of texture. Soil separates are mineral particles, 2.0 mm in diameter and include: gravel 0.2 -7.5 cm and cobbles 7.5-25.0 cm. There are 12 texture group classes definitions and one class definition for Not Applicable (which indicates, for example, water, ice or urban areas)."
85,"Cost of translation and revision requests, by branch, by language and fiscal year."
8231,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
6363,"Self-rated health as ""very good"" or ""excellent"" in 1994/95 and rating in 1996/97, by age group and sex, household population aged 12 and over, Canada and provinces"
342,This dataset contains descriptions of pedological features of soils at specific locations according to the canadian soil classification system.
3116,"This is a series of Excel, PDF and Word documents which contain lists with inventories of information resources stored in storage rooms across CFS Centres as of 2012-2015.CONTEXT:  the implementation of the CFS Legacy Paper IM Project 2012-2015 involved HQ FKIMD-FISS staff visiting all the CFS Centres and working with Records Office and Scientific Archives Staff. Before and after the visits they applied the existing CFS Record Disposition Authorities to their Information Resource Archive Inventories and completed dispositions of information, where applicable. This lead to electronic versions of the existing paper inventories, in which some were updated and others were not with the RDA information. This also led to the development of 2 prototype databases, modelled from NoFC's version, for AFC and GLFC. The databases are listed in the CFS Applications Inventory and the excel inventory lists are available in GCDOCS  "
4003,"Closed-end funds statements of estimated assets, liabilities and shareholders' equity"
1748,"Morphometrics data--body measurements, etc. Purpose: For use in biological studies and stock assessments."
9997,Government transfer payments to persons
6348,"Police-reported hate crime, by police service, Canada"
10205,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
6685,"Self-rated health as ""very good"" or ""excellent"" in 1996/97 and rating in 1998/99, by age group and sex, household population aged 12 and over, Canada and provinces"
7019,"Low income cut-offs before and after tax by community and family size, 2011 constant dollars"
4352,"Average hours per week of television viewing, by selected age groups"
384,"The National Ecological Framework for Canada's ""Elevation by Ecoregion” dataset provides elevation information for ecoregion framework polygons, in meters. It includes codes and descriptions for minimum elevation, maximum elevation, mean elevation and the difference in elevation."
7564,"Reconciliation of net income of liquor authorities with total revenue specifically derived from the control and sale of alcoholic beverages, fiscal years ended March 31"
7233,"Average hourly earnings for salaried employees (paid a fixed salary) (SEPH), including overtime, unadjusted for seasonal variation, for selected industries classified using the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
6115,"Employment Insurance Program (E.I.), beneficiaries by province, census metropolitan areas, census agglomerations and sex"
10468,"This table provides statistical information about people in Canada by their demographic, social and economic characteristics as well as provide information about the housing units in which they live."
8313,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
3272,4.1 Area of moderate to severe defoliation (including beetle-killed trees) by insects
6159,"Cancer incidence (January 2002 CCR file), by selected sites of cancer and sex, Canada, provinces, territories and health regions (January 2000 boundaries)"
8011,"The Road Network File is a digital representation of Canada's road network, containing information such as street names, types, directions and address ranges. "
2841,"This file contains data collected in 1971 relating to aircraft movement statistics in Canada.These datasets have been converted from their legacy file structures and encoding schemes so they can be used by contemporary computers that are based upon the ASCII character-encoding scheme. Each dataset will require specialized software such as a statistical tool, to interpret and analyze the content in each file. The attached codebook describes the file’s structure and defines the variables contained in each field. Each code book is a compilation of the summary description of the dataset as provided by the creating department.  As such, it is available in English only"
3854,"The Government of Canada uses Goods and Services Identification Number (GSIN) codes to identify generic product descriptions for its procurement activities. On Buyandsell.gc.ca, GSIN codes connect all of the procurement information, including Tender Notices, Award Notices, Standing Offers and Supply Arrangements, and Contract History. The GSIN CSV file published on this page is updated on an “as needed” frequency, when codes are either created or deactivated on Buyandsell.gc.ca. Visit the ""About GSIN Codes"" page to learn more: https://buyandsell.gc.ca/procurement-data/goods-and-services-identification-number/about-gsin-codes. The Procurement Data Dictionary offers a description of each data field contained in the GSIN file, as well as other datasets published on Buyandsell.gc.ca. The XML file is meant to be used as a guide for understanding the various data elements. It is updated on an “as needed” frequency to reflect changes to data elements on Buyandsell.gc.ca. "
5237,Business credit
1453,"This index measures the relative intensity of the Aleutian Low pressure system of the north Pacific (December through March). It is calculated as the mean area (km²) with sea level pressure <= 100.5 kPa and expressed as an anomaly from the 1950-1997 mean. A positive index value reflects a relatively strong or intense Aleutian Low. The index was completely regenerated using a new method in 2015. The new method produces ALPI values that are comparable to previously published values (1900-2008), and there is no difference in the periods with positive or negative values. To make use of this index, you are requested to cite the manuscript (below).

Correct citation:
Surry, A.M. and King, J.R. 2015. A New Method for Calculating ALPI: the Aleutian Low Pressure Index. Can. Tech. Rep. Fish. Aquat. Sci. 3135: 31 + v p. FULL DOCUMENT"
5285,"Assets and debts held by family units, total amounts, by education level"
9156,"Census of Agriculture, poultry inventory on census day"
2923,Summaries of completed Access to Information (ATI) requests.
5476,"Households and the environment survey, purchases to feed, shelter or watch birds, by type of dwelling, Canada"
8139,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
5842,"Average weekly earnings (SEPH), by type of employee for selected industries classified using the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
9302,"Flows and stocks of fixed non-residential and residential capital, by sector and asset, Canada"
7069,"Film and video distribution, industry profile"
6546,"Labour force survey estimates (LFS), employment by census metropolitan area based on 2011 Census boundaries and National Occupational Classification for Statistics (NOC-S), 3-month moving average, unadjusted for seasonality"
4908,National saving rate
7743,"Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation, newly completed and unoccupied housing in selected census metropolitan areas and large urban centres"
2838,"This file contains data for a 1975 survey undertaken to aid the Public Service Staff Relations Board in providing information on the pay rates, hours of work, education and field of work for use during contract negotiations. These datasets have been converted from their legacy file structures and encoding schemes so they can be used by contemporary computers that are based upon the ASCII character-encoding scheme. Each dataset will require specialized software such as a statistical tool, to interpret and analyze the content in each file. The attached codebook describes the file’s structure and defines the variables contained in each field. Each code book is a compilation of the summary description of the dataset as provided by the creating department.  As such, it is available in English only."
2815,"This file contains weekly pork prices for Calgary, Winnipeg and Toronto including by-product prices, farmer prices, wholesale spreads, packer returns, retail and wholesale prices. The data were collected from January 1973 to June 1975. These datasets have been converted from their legacy file structures and encoding schemes so they can be used by contemporary computers that are based upon the ASCII character-encoding scheme. Each dataset will require specialized software such as a statistical tool, to interpret and analyze the content in each file. The attached codebook describes the file’s structure and defines the variables contained in each field. Each code book is a compilation of the summary description of the dataset as provided by the creating department.  As such, it is available in English only."
5421,"Components of population growth, by province and territory"
9765,"Labour force survey estimates (LFS), by census metropolitan area based on 2006 census boundaries, 3-month moving average, seasonally adjusted and unadjusted"
2055,"Continuous air samples were collected on board the CCGS Amundsen in 2014 using a high volume air sampler that drew air through a glass fibre filter followed by two polyurethane foam plugs. Water samples were collected by filtering water through a glass fibre filter followed by a solid phase absorbent. Sediment samples were collected by a box corer and water particulate was filtered from seawater.  Samples were extracted back at the laboratory followed by analysis using a gas chromatograph-mass spectrometer. Data generated included concentration of semi-volatile contaminants in air, water, sediment and water particulate. Contaminants include current and legacy pesticides, flame retardants, plasticizers and per-fluorinated compounds."
5288,"Retail non-store industries, commodity sales, by industries"
2241,"The data consist of homogenized daily maximum, minimum and mean surface air temperatures for more than 330 locations in Canada; adjusted daily rainfall, snowfall and total precipitation for more than 460 locations. The data are given for the entire period of observation. Please refer to the papers below for detailed information regarding the procedures for homogenization and adjustment.
References: 
Mekis, É. and L.A. Vincent, 2011: An overview of the second generation adjusted daily precipitation dataset for trend analysis in Canada. Atmosphere-Ocean, 49(2), 163-177.
Vincent, L. A., X. L. Wang, E. J. Milewska, H. Wan, F. Yang, and V. Swail, 2012. A second generation of homogenized Canadian monthly surface air temperature for climate trend analysis, J. Geophys. Res., 117, D18110, doi:10.1029/2012JD017859.
Wang, X.L, Y. Feng, L. A. Vincent, 2013. Observed changes in one-in-20 year extremes of Canadian surface air temperatures. Atmosphere-Ocean. Doi:10.1080/07055900.2013.818526."
7821,"Unemployment rate, Canada, provinces, health regions (2014 boundaries) and peer groups"
3158,Molecular characterization of dsRNA in Heterobasidion irregulare and Heterobasidion occidentale and effects on growth and sporulation - stored at NCBI Genbank
4754,"Prevalence of disability for adults, by sex and age group, Canada, provinces and territories"
2633,"A forward sortation area (FSA) is a way to designate a geographical unit based on the first three characters in a Canadian postal code. All postal codes that start with the same three characters—for example, K1A—are together considered an FSA. [Office of the Superintendent of Bankruptcy Canada] "
6754,Employment generated by tourism
7845,"Upper income limits and income shares of total income quintiles, by major income source, 2011 constant dollars"
3500,"Thousand Islands NP monitors wetland water quality yearly in May/June. Samples are analyzed for multiple parameters including: total phosphorus, ammonium, nitrate, turbidity, and specific conductivity."
4102,"Employment Insurance Program (E.I.), beneficiaries by province, 2001 census division and sex"
2821,"This file contains data on weekly price indices calculated from the data of the eight-city survey. The purpose of calculating such numerical indices was to represent trends in food prices. The cities surveyed were Vancouver, Edmonton, Winnipeg, Toronto, Ottawa, Montréal, Québec and Halifax. The data cover the period January 1973 to December 1975. These datasets have been converted from their legacy file structures and encoding schemes so they can be used by contemporary computers that are based upon the ASCII character-encoding scheme. Each dataset will require specialized software such as a statistical tool, to interpret and analyze the content in each file. The attached codebook describes the file’s structure and defines the variables contained in each field. Each code book is a compilation of the summary description of the dataset as provided by the creating department.  As such, it is available in English only."
3265,Estimates of parameter values for  allometric equations of tree (4 compartments) and stand biomass
8261,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
9514,Value of proven and probable gold reserves from gold mines
10275,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
8028,"Capital and repair expenditures, industry sectors 44-45, retail trade"
10558,"The Directory of Federal Real Property is the central record and only complete listing of real property holdings of the Government of Canada. It is administered by the Real Property and Materiel Policy Directorate of the Treasury Board Secretariat. The purpose of the Directory is to maintain an up-to-date record of basic information concerning the real property holdings of the Government of Canada. Information held in the Directory is used to keep the Government of Canada informed about the scale and major components of its real property inventory. It is also used to provide information to ministers, members of Parliament and the general public concerning a specific property or group of properties within a particular geographic area. "
2877,"This dataset contains details about contributions offered to eligible recipients under the National Energy Board's Participant Funding Program (PFP) to facilitate the participation of the public in hearings with respect to new or abandonment projects for pipelines and powerlines and designated projects requiring Environmental Assessments under the Canadian Environmental Assessment Act, 2012. "
2623,"The food consumption table, available in a Microsoft Excel spreadsheet, provides estimates of daily intakes of foods (means and percentiles) obtained using data from the 2004 CCHS cycle 2.2. Estimates were generated at three different food grouping levels based on the food group list from the Bureau of Nutritional Sciences (BNS). These estimates are presented for two consumption populations: “all persons” and “eaters only”. Each estimate is further broken down by various age-sex categories. For both consumption populations, estimates are available in two different units: 1) grams per person per day and 2) grams per kilogram of body weight per day. The Read Me, Food Group List and Body Weights tabs of the FCT provide detailed information to facilitate its use."
2075,"The Great Lakes Sediment Database (also known as the National Water Research Institute (NWRI) Sediment Archive) is an archive of data on the sediments of the Great Lakes, their connecting channels, and the St. Lawrence River which was collected by NWRI and in cooperation with other agencies between 1968 and 2001. It is housed in Environment and Climate Change Canada's Canada Centre for Inland Waters in Burlington, Ontario. The data has been subdivided into  two groups according to location and purpose: 

1.Great Lakes Basin Sediment Data: physical and geochemical data for sediment samples and cores collected lakewide in lakes Ontario, Erie, St. Clair, Huron (including Georgian Bay), Michigan and Superior between 1968 and 1975 by R.L. Thomas, A.L.W. Kemp and C.F.M. Lewis of NWRI. The data includes descriptions of sediment and core properties, grain-size statistics and sediment geochemistry;

2. Nearshore Sediments Data: physical data for samples and cores, bathymetry, and sediment thickness collected in the Canadian nearshore zone of lakes Ontario, Erie, St. Clair, Huron and Georgian Bay between 1968 and 1975. The data includes descriptions of sediment and core properties, grain-size statistics, sediment patterns and x-radiographs of sediment cores. Underwater photographs are also available for Lake Huron and Georgian Bay."
4997,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
1791,"This data set contains information on all the standard parameters collected for a habitat survey. The area surveyed in this data set is Romaines River, St. Georges Bay, NL. Purpose: The data set was used as a portion of baseline data for a proposed salmon enhancement program."
6277,"Tourism share of gross domestic product (GDP) at basic prices, seasonally adjusted at annual rates"
7858,"Contribution to private sector employment, gross employment creation and gross employment destruction, by firm size, provinces and the territories"
6332,"Pap smear, by age group, females aged 18 to 69 years, Canada, provinces, territories, health regions (June 2003 boundaries) and peer groups"
6505,"Crime severity index and weighted clearance rates, by police service, Manitoba"
4416,"Distribution of the population aged 5 to 24 with Aboriginal identity, by age group and living arrangement, Canada"
2359,"The Air Pollutant Emission Inventory (APEI) is an annual report of air pollutant emissions across Canada published by Environment and Climate Change Canada. The report details the release of air pollutants from all known of sources since 1990. The APEI serves many purposes, including:

-supporting the development of air quality management strategies, policies and regulations.
-fulfilling Canada’s domestic and international reporting obligations.
-informing Canadians about pollutants that affect their health and the environment.
-providing data to support air quality forecasting.

Emissions data is available for the following 17 air pollutants for the years 1990-2014:

Criteria air contaminants (CACs):
-Total particulate matter (TPM)
-Particulate matter less than or equal to 10 microns (PM10)
-Particulate matter less than or equal to 2.5 microns (PM2.5)
-Sulphur oxides (SOx)
-Nitrogen oxides (NOx)
-Volatile organic compounds (VOCs)
-Carbon monoxide (CO)
-Ammonia (NH3)

Heavy metals: 
-Mercury (Hg)
-Lead (Pb)
-Cadmium (Cd)

Persistent organic pollutants (POPs): 
-Dioxins and furans (D/F)
-Four polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) compounds (Benzo[a]pyrene, Benzo[b]fluoranthene, Benzo[k]fluoranthene and Indeno[1,2,3-cd]pyrene)
-Hexachlorobenzene (HCB)

This data record breaks down the 1997 emissions of all reported pollutants for Canada by province and territory. To view historical trends of individual substances, please visit the Air Pollutant Emission Inventory Historical Trends data record. To perform more customized selections of APEI data, please visit our website to use our interactive query tool.

The Air Pollutant Emission Inventory is compiled from many different data sources. Emissions data reported by individual facilities to Environment and Climate Change Canada’s National Pollutant Release Inventory are supplemented with well documented, science-based estimation tools to quantify total emissions. Together these data sources provide a comprehensive overview of pollutant emissions across Canada."
8306,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
3381,"The Conditional Release Grant Rate dataset provides information on the number of conditional releases granted/directed/continued/approved/authorized and the number of conditional releases denied/not directed/not approved/not authorized.  Decisions are sorted according to location and final decision. Items found in this dataset include, among others, jurisdiction, decision purpose, decision type, sentence type, review type, race, gender and offence type."
1424,"Collection of Information of spawning fish (emphasis on mackerel). Details of Zooplankton distribution in St Georges Bay, Nova Scotia.
PURPOSE: Study of the early like history of mackerel."
6648,"Farm debt outstanding, classified by lender"
4558,"Perinatal mortality (number and rates) and components, Canada, provinces and territories"
6357,Local government revenue and expenditures for fiscal year ending closest to December 31
7579,"Enterprises holding or using copyrights, by copyright size group and revenue size group, selected industries, December 2010"
6884,"Water recirculation in mineral extraction and thermal-electric power generation industries, by purpose and region"
635,"Temporary residents who are in Canada on a work permit or study permit in the observed calendar year. Datasets include Temporary Foreign Worker Program (TFWP) and International Mobility Program (IMP) work permit and study permit holders by year in which permit(s) became effective. Please note that in these datasets, the figures have been suppressed or rounded to prevent the identification of individuals when the datasets are compiled and compared with other publicly available statistics. Values between 0 and 5 are shown as “--“ and all other values are rounded to the nearest multiple of 5. This may result to the sum of the figures not equating to the totals indicated."
6238,"Selected agricultural activities, provinces"
4679,"Live births, weeks of gestation indicators, by characteristics of the mother and child, Canada"
5926,"Gross domestic product (GDP) at basic prices, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
1422,"Bioness Sampler to collect Zooplankton over 202 microns in the Bras d'Or Lakes.
PURPOSE: Information for fish spawning. To assess the fish populations, targets, fish eggs and larvae."
4168,"Canadian Internet use survey, Internet use, by age group and Internet privacy concern"
3768,"At the end of each fiscal year, financial information is published in the Public Accounts. This dataset shows the average high and low yields of Treasury bills, at tender, together with the average yield on the latest issues for the targeted years."
3376,"The Conditional Release Grant Rate dataset provides information on the number of conditional releases granted/directed/continued/approved/authorized and the number of conditional releases denied/not directed/not approved/not authorized.  Decisions are sorted according to location and final decision. Items found in this dataset include, among others, jurisdiction, decision purpose, decision type, sentence type, review type, race, gender and offence type."
8295,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
10550,"The information presented includes key demographics for the Federal Public Service, comparing the current workforce to that from previous years."
489,"All food products listed that have been found to be non-compliant with one or more of our regulations. All listed food products have been removed from the food supply in a safe manner, thereby preventing their entry into the Canadian marketplace."
3763,"At the end of each fiscal year, financial information is published in the Public Accounts. These datasets present the source and disposition of budgetary and non-budgetary authorities by ministry."
6176,Business enterprise expenditures made and payments received for intellectual property and other technology related services
8409,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
263,"This data product represents the monthly volumetric soil moisture (percent saturated soil) for the surface layer (<5 cm). The data is produced from passive microwave satellite data collected by the Soil Moisture and Ocean Salinity (SMOS) satellite and converted to soil moisture using version 6.20 of the SMOS soil moisture processor. The data are produced by the European Space Agency and obtained under a Category 1 proposal for Level 2 soil moisture data. The data are gridded to a resolution of 0.25 degrees. Data quality flags have been applied to remove areas where rainfall is present during the acquisition, where snow cover is detected and when Radio Frequency Interference (RFI) is above an acceptable threshold."
6621,"Survey of innovation and business strategy, percentage of sales of highest selling good or service across selected geographic markets, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and enterprise size, all surveyed industries"
3041,"This collection is a legacy product that is no longer supported. Land Cover information is the result of vectorization of raster thematic data originating from classified Landsat 5 and Landsat 7 ortho-images, for agricultural and forest areas of Canada, and for Northern Territories. The forest cover was produced by the Earth Observation for Sustainable Development (EOSD) project, an initiative of the Canadian Forest Service (CFS) with the collaboration of the Canadian Space Agency (CSA) and in partnership with the provincial and territorial governments. The agricultural coverage is produced by the National Land and Water Information Service (NLWIS) of Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada (AAFC). Northern Territories land cover was realized by the Canadian Centre of Remote Sensing (CCRS). Land Cover data are classified according to a harmonized legend build from the partner's legends. This legend is principally based on the legend described in following publication: EOSD publication: EOSD Land Cover Classification Legend Report, on which CFS and AAFC collaborated. Some classes related to Northern environments where added in order to meet the interpretation of the Northern land cover classification experts. Land Cover vector data are closest as possible to the source (original raster data). Slight differences can occur because the raster data goes through a data portrayal before being vectorized in order to enhance visual representation such as minimum size, smoothness of polygons and geometry."
3805,"The moment a department deposits money in a financial institution, the information is sent to the Bank of Canada and the Government Banking System (GBS). In turn, GBS will send deposit details to Departmental Financial and Materiel Management Systems (DFMSs) and will send deposit control data by department to the Receiver General-General Ledger (RG-GL).  As a result, this dataset contains summary data sent to RG-GL and reported to the financial reporting account (FRA) 62ddd (where ``ddd’’ is a department number).  This FRA enables the Receiver General (RG) to reconcile information provided by GBS and all DFMSs. It is to be noted that the entries recorded in 62ddd of the RG-GL is opposite as to debit (DR) or credit (CR) entries recorded in a DFMS."
3455,The Grasslands National Park monitors daily the peak flow rates of the Frenchman River and Rock Creek every year from March to August; this measure reports on the integrity of a natural disturbance process by comparing the current distribution of peak flow rates to a historic baseline from the early 1900s. 
771,"Facts and Figures 2015: Immigration Overview Temporary Residents presents the annual intake of permit holders and refugee claimants from 1994 to 2015.
 The report also shows the total count of permit holders and refugee claimants with valid permit(s) in each calendar year and the total count of permit holders and refugee claimants as at December 31st of each year. The main body of the publication consists of a series of statistical tables and charts covering the ten-year period from 2006 to 2015.
 In Facts & Figures 2015 for Temporary Residents, numbers on International Mobility Program (IMP) Work Permit Holders for Work Purposes increased due to the moving of the Post-graduate Employment Work Permit Holders population from Work Permit Holders for Study Purposes to Work Permit Holders for Work Purposes under the International Mobility Program. As a result of this, the Facts & Figures 2015 reports reflect a corresponding decrease in the number of Work Permit Holders for Study Purposes. These changes have been applied retroactively.
 The Post-Graduation Work Permit Program (PGWPP) allows students who have graduated from a participating Canadian post-secondary institution to gain valuable Canadian work experience. Skilled Canadian work experience gained through the PGWPP potentially helps graduates qualify for permanent residence in Canada through the Canadian Experience Class (CEC). 

Facts & Figures 2013 had previously counted those who held Post-Graduation Work Permits as Work Permit Holders for Study Purposes. However, Work Permit Holders for Study Purposes is a category for individuals who are primarily students and who are also allowed to get a work permit (e.g., Co-op students) because it is integral to their course of studies. To get a PGWP, in contrast, an individual must have ceased to be a student – it is a requirement that the individual must have graduated from their program."
2002,"The aircraft, ships, vehicles and weapons used by the Canadian Armed Forces in training and operations. Investments in new equipment that will ensure our Forces are ready to take on future challenges."
4144,"Sources of income for adults with and without disabilities, by age group and sex, Canada, provinces and territories"
7167,"Low birth weight (less than 2,500 grams) and borderline viable birth weight-adjusted low birth weight (500 to less than 2,500 grams), by sex, Canada, provinces and territories"
8238,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
10709,Pollution incident database used to track prosecutions under CSA 2001
4578,"Distribution of farm families by income group and family size, unincorporated sector"
10035,"Water acquisition costs in manufacturing industries, by provinces, territories and drainage regions"
6071,Work absence statistics of full-time employees by sex and union coverage
4548,"Survey of innovation and business strategy, percentage of employees with a university degree, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and enterprise size, all surveyed industries"
9741,"Census of Agriculture, organic products for sale"
9664,"Employer businesses in the private sector, by employment dynamics and firm size, provinces and the territories"
7957,"Number and percentage distribution of registered apprentices, by sex and major trade groups, Canada, provinces and territories"
10666,Surveillance Process Control & Quality Control Check sheet results
3027,"The Canadian Digital Surface Model (CDSM) is part of Natural Resources Canada's altimetry system designed to better meet the users' needs for elevation data and products. The 0.75-second (~20 m) CDSM consists of a derived product from the original 1-second (30 m) Shuttle Radar Topographic Mission (SRTM) digital surface model (DSM). In these data, the elevations are captured at the top of buildings, trees, structures, and other objects rather than at ground level. A CDSM mosaic can be obtained for a pre-defined or user-defined extent. The coverage and resolution of a mosaic varies according to the extent of the requested area. Derived products such as slope, shaded relief and colour shaded relief maps can also be generated on demand."
5336,"Provincial and territorial general government revenue and expenditures, by province and territory"
5478,"Components of population growth, census divisions and census metropolitan areas, 1991 census boundaries"
6165,"Business credit outstanding, by supplier type and credit instrument type"
7590,Telecommunications services price indexes
5281,"Consumer Price Index, recreation, education and reading, by province (monthly)"
6827,"Water discharge in mineral extraction and thermal-electric power generation industries, by point of discharge and type of final treatment"
1427,"Tagging of Blue, Porbeagle, Greenland, Spiney Dogfish, and Basking Sharks with intentions of tagging Mako Sharks.
PURPOSE: Migration, distribution, and pupping grounds."
5687,"National graduates survey, student debt from all sources, by location of residence at time of interview and level of study"
6545,"Youth courts, guilty cases by mean and median length of probation"
2315,"Summarized Chemicals Management Plan environmental monitoring and surveillance collected data for polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs), providing information on its spatial and temporal distribution in Canada from 1980 to 2010, and compares measured PBDEs concentrations to draft Federal Environmental Quality Guidelines."
456,Data supporting individual department and agency accounts of results achieved against planned performance expectations as set out in respective Reports on Plans and Priorities.
9779,"Operating and financial summary of the cable and other program distribution industry, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
1920,Temperature data from moored temperature chains placed in the Estuary and Gulf of St. Lawrence and the Hudson Bay from 1993 à 2016.
7808,"Incident-based crime statistics, by detailed violations and police services, Quebec"
7546,"Number of persons employed in employer enterprises newly born, by North American Industry Classification System and enterprise size"
3503,"Park staff visually evaluate tree health within 20m x 20m forest plots in August each year. Plots are rotated every 5 years (6 plots/year) and monitored according to term Ecological Monitoring and Assessment Network (EMAN) Protocols and Standards. Crown condition, diameter at breast height, and stem defects are used as indicators of tree health to help identify the symptoms of tree and forest decline."
8807,"Cable and other program distribution industry, financial and operating statistics"
8059,"Farm inputs, selected average prices"
10502,Summary Table. Find data on sentencing of youth cases by type of crime. Canada. STC
7916,"Economic dependency profile, by sex, taxfilers and income, and source of income"
10208,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
3912,"Reference table listing of SSC Commitment Items and their descriptions.  Commitment Item is used to identify the nature of financial transactions (assets, liabilities, equity, revenues or expenses) in the SIGMA Funds Management (FM) module. "
3023,"The NRN product is distributed in the form of thirteen provincial or territorial datasets and consists of two linear entities (Road Segment and Ferry Connection Segment) and three punctual entities (Junction, Blocked Passage, Toll Point) with which is associated a series of descriptive attributes such as, among others: First House Number, Last House Number, Street Name Body, Place Name, Functional Road Class, Pavement Status, Number Of Lanes, Structure Type, Route Number, Route Name, Exit Number. The development of the NRN was realized by means of individual meetings and national workshops with interested data providers from the federal, provincial, territorial and municipal governments. In 2005, the NRN edition 2.0 was alternately adopted by members from the Inter-Agency Committee on Geomatics (IACG) and the Canadian Council on Geomatics (CCOG). The NRN content largely conforms to the ISO 14825 from ISO/TC 204."
4413,"Industrial product price indexes for electrical and communication products, non-metallic mineral products, petroleum and coal products industries"
9812,"Canadian vehicle survey, fuel consumed, by type of vehicle, type of fuel and type of vehicle body"
10493,"Days lost per worker by reason, by provinces"
7504,"Market Basket Measure Thresholds (2011 base) for reference family, by Market Basket Measure region and component, 2011 constant dollars"
9495,"Trucking revenue distribution by type of movement, by province and territory"
10308,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
4138,"Trust companies, statements of estimated changes in financial position"
2252,"A database of verified tornado tracks across Canada has been created covering the 30-year period from 1980 to 2009. The tornado data have undergone a number of quality control checks and represent the most current knowledge of past tornado events over the period. However, updates may be made to the database as new or more accurate information becomes available. The data have been converted to a geo-referenced mapping file that can be viewed and manipulated using GIS software."
1247,Kg of [species] to [country] 
1644,"Circuli counts and distance measurements of Atlantic salmon scales from Conne River, Newfoundland. Purpose: Back-calculation of fish size from scale measurements; comparison of juvenile growth of salmon parr rearing in lake versus stream habitat; estimates of the relative production of salmon smolts from lake versus stream habitat."
1210,"Limits of Northwest Atlantic fishing zones according to the Convention on Future Multilateral Cooperation in the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries. Reference name: NAFO zones Author: Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Organization (NAFO) Source: Convention on Future Multilateral Cooperation in the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Horizontal Datum: Known horizontal datum for geographic coordinates at time of Convention is NAD27. Recorded horizontal datum in the Shape files available from the NAFO website is NAD83. Original data location for future updates: Data is posted on the site of the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Organization (NAFO). Shape file downloaded on June 24, 2015 from the NAFO website: http://www.nafo.int/about/frames/area.html"
4844,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
4628,"Caregivers receiving financial support from government programs for providing care to relatives or friends with a long-term illness, disability or aging needs"
2678,The Technical and Administrative Frequency List (TAFL) that contains technical data on radio system frequencies in use in the Quebec Region. NOTE:  Superseded by the SMS Spectrum Management System (SMS) Authorization Data Extract. 
1353,"A collection of hand drawn and CAD files of fish passage structures, enhancement facilities, and fish assessment facilities in the Maritimes.
PURPOSE: To provide records of functional designs, construction and survey drawings for various structures and facilities."
9860,"Marriages, by religion of groom and religion of bride, opposite-sex marriages, Canada"
4857,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
8285,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
4242,"Socioeconomic overview of the farm population, number of farm operators and income characteristics by the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
8029,"Socioeconomic overview of the farm population, number of operators per farm by occupation and sex"
5276,"Retail trade, operating statistics, by province and territory"
5723,"Labour force survey estimates (LFS), employment by census metropolitan area based on 2001 census boundaries and National Occupational Classification for Statistics (NOC-S), 3-month moving average, unadjusted for seasonality"
5695,Purchasing power parities between Canada and the United States based on the System of National Accounts Classification (SNA) in terms of expenditures
7825,Mortgage companies statements of estimated retained earnings
6481,"Introduction of process innovations between 2012 and 2014, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and enterprise size"
5508,Canadian investment transactions of sixteen life insurance companies
6977,"Importance of spirituality, by age group and sex, household population aged 12 and over, selected provinces, territories and health regions (January 2000 boundaries)"
2780,"This file contains data collected from 1975 to 1976 on the modes, types and cost of transportation, as well as accommodation and meals of federal employees traveling on government business. These datasets have been converted from their legacy file structures and encoding schemes so they can be used by contemporary computers that are based upon the ASCII character-encoding scheme. Each dataset will require specialized software such as a statistical tool, to interpret and analyze the content in each file. The attached codebook describes the file’s structure and defines the variables contained in each field. Each code book is a compilation of the summary description of the dataset as provided by the creating department. As such, it is available in English only."
9737,Proven and probable zinc reserves
5441,"Earnings, average weekly, by industry, monthly"
9665,"Industrial product price indexes, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
4728,"Labour force survey estimates (LFS), by National Occupational Classification for Statistics (NOC-S) and sex"
508,"A targeted survey analyzed 221 samples of air-packed sun-dried tomatoes for viruses. Of those samples, 99.1% were found to be free of viruses. Samples were analyzed for Hepatitis A (HAV) and Norovirus (NoV) (Genotype I and II (GI, GII)). NoV (GI) RNA was not detected in any of the samples tested. HAV RNA was detected in one imported sample and NoV (GII) RNA was also detected in one imported sample. The CFIA conducted appropriate follow-up activities for all viral RNA positive samples. No illnesses were reported in association with any of the positive samples."
5507,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
2036,"This report is an analysis of how the regulations are performing in meeting their objective, which is reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions thereby contributing to the protection of Canadians and the environment from the impacts of climate change.  
The performance report takes into account indicators, such as renewable fuel volumes used and how industry is complying with the requirements that were developed for the Renewable Fuels Regulations Performance Measurement and Evaluation Plan. This report covers the first two years of the Regulations, which are the first periods for which the renewable fuel content of gasoline and diesel fuel had to meet the two per cent and five per cent requirements. 
The first gasoline compliance period for the five per cent requirement started on December 15, 2010 and ended on December 31, 2012. The first distillate compliance period for the two per cent requirement for diesel fuel and heating distillate oil started on July 1, 2011 and ended on December 31, 2012."
49,Provides details on the adoption rate of Knowledge Workspace in the department. 
4155,"United States manufacturing and trade sales, seasonally adjusted"
6853,Selected income and expenditure accounts variables
4254,"Asthma, by age group and sex, household population aged 12 and over, Canada, provinces, territories, health regions (January 2000 boundaries) and peer groups"
4017,"Hogs statistics, weighted average prices"
5773,"Canadian vehicle survey, passenger-kilometres for vehicles up to 4.5 tonnes, by origin and destination of trip"
5455,"Industrial product price indexes for machinery and equipment, autos, trucks and other transportation equipment industries"
8810,Field and special crops
6044,"Labour force survey estimates (LFS), employment by National Occupational Classification (NOC), seasonally adjusted"
2185,"Acidifying species data are reported in gaseous (acidifying) and particle (major ions) form,  based on various measurement methods. Data are provided by federal and provincial networks. See the Contributing Networks and Studies list (PDF file) for more information on individual networks."
4957,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
5978,"Labour force survey estimates (LFS), by family type and family age composition, unadjusted for seasonality"
237,"The “Major Drainage Systems of the AAFC Watersheds Project - 2013” dataset is a geospatial data layer containing polygon features representing the three (3) major drainage system basins of the Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada (AAFC) Watersheds Project. The Project area has been split according into which body of water it drains: the Arctic Ocean, Hudson Bay or Gulf of Mexico."
179,"Crop heat units (CHU) are based on a similar principle to growing degree days. CHUs are calculated on a daily basis, using the maximum and minimum temperatures; however, the equation that is used is quite different. The CHU model uses separate calculations for maximum and minimum temperatures. CHU values are only accumulated during the Growing Season which spans from April 1 through October 31."
3891,The data provides details on the quality of drinking water for Public Services and Procurement Canada and client departments.
7201,"Number of employees, (SEPH), by type of employee and Standard Industrial Classification, 1980 (SIC)"
38,"Statistics on number of visits, most popular pages, most common searches, search statistics, etc."
3507,"Frogs and toads were monitored through visual and audio surveys during twice-yearly wetland visits between May-June 2006-2014. Frogs and toads were assessed by park staff for physical deformities, abundance and diversity"
2134,"A collection of Environment and Climate Change Canada's research scientists and technical staff located across Canada; including a profile, their locations, research priorities, professional interests and accomplishments."
6406,"Use of product development practices, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and enterprise size"
2454,"The survey instrument used the full set of advertising campaign evaluation tool (ACET) questions used by the Government of Canada in all of its advertising evaluation research, as well as a small subset of additional questions targeted specifically for apprentices related to application for and accessing of government grants (including the Apprenticeship Incentive and Completion Grants (AIC and ACG). The length of the interview was 9 minutes for the general public and 11 minutes for apprentices. Pre-testing was conducted with both the general public and apprentices one week before the end of the campaign. A total of 20 cases were conducted in the general public and nine cases were completed with apprentices. The cases completed with apprentices were retained in the final data file."
4016,"Mammogram obtained within the last 2 years, by age group, females aged 50 to 69 years, Canada, provinces, territories, health regions (2007 boundaries) and peer groups"
5931,"Average total income, by economic family type, 2011 constant dollars"
1666,"List of all DFO scientific research cruises including information such as cruise ID, area, season, vessel, gear type, set type, PI, and date. Purpose: Documentation of scientific research."
313,These datasets show the areas where major crops can be expected within the agricultural regions of Canada. Results are provided as rasters with numerical values for each pixel indicating the level of spatial density calculated for a specific crop type in that location. Regions with higher spatial density for a certain crop have higher likelihood to have the same crop based on the previous years mapped crop inventories.
2617,A series of health-related data sets from various quantitative public opinion research studies. 
6033,"Survey of innovation and business strategy, obstacles to innovation confronted, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and enterprise size, all surveyed industries"
2890,"The National Energy Board (NEB) strives for meaningful engagement with the public and Indigenous groups, to provide fair opportunity to access information on our processes and how to participate effectively in them. As such, NEB staff make themselves available to the public and Indigenous groups in a variety of ways to provide information as well as to respond to questions.  Engagement activities are conducted using a variety of methods: Information Session, Meeting, Telephone or Video Conference Meetings, Online WebEx (various locations), Open House, Presentation, Workshop, Town Hall. NEB Damage Prevention staff conduct Damage prevention-related compliance verification activities. Through the Damage Prevention Outreach and Engagement plan, damage prevention staff educate and engage with people from across Canada at events, meetings and conferences. This dataset includes: all currently assigned engagement activities, new engagement activities assigned, and engagement activities that were closed within this reporting period."
6163,"Hogs and pigs statistics, inventory number by class and semi-annual period, United States and Canada"
1797,Biological salmon sampling from Newfoundland & Labrador commercial salmon fishery. Purpose: Stock assessment/research papers.
8674,"This table provides statistical information about people in Canada by their demographic, social and economic characteristics as well as provide information about the housing units in which they live."
1536,"This report provides fish health data collected by Fisheries and Oceans Canada (DFO) from all licensed marine facilities culturing salmon in British Columbia (BC). Results of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) screening are provided, as well as a list of the bacterial pathogens isolated and whether a pathogen or disease has been confirmed by histopathological testing (microscopic examination). DFO veterinarians provide a farm-level diagnosis based on these findings and other information collected during the fish health audit. The report also shows the number of fish health audits and licence condition inspections DFO makes each calendar year. Results are updated annually; site-specific data are only published after a facility has completed its production cycle. Prior to 2014, this report included industry-reported data on fish health events and management response measures; for proceeding years, that information will be provided in a separate report that is under development. Descriptions of the diagnoses, diseases and pathogens identified in the report can be found in the terminology file below."
3943,Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA) conducted and completed at SSC by fiscal year
2982,fuel consumption ratings by year
4146,"Mean and median birth weight (live births), by sex, Canada, provinces and territories"
5233,"Consumer Price Index, household operations and furnishings and equipment, by province"
2801,"This file contains general time series econometric data contributing to a Prices and Incomes Commission study on inflation in the Canadian economy. The data cover the time period between 1961 and 1969. These datasets have been converted from their legacy file structures and encoding schemes so they can be used by contemporary computers that are based upon the ASCII character-encoding scheme. Each dataset will require specialized software such as a statistical tool, to interpret and analyze the content in each file. The attached codebook describes the file’s structure and defines the variables contained in each field. Each code book is a compilation of the summary description of the dataset as provided by the creating department.  As such, it is available in English only"
3923,Monthly capture of the percentage of time Remote Access Services are available for each partner department.  
5050,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
7238,"Registered pension plans (RPPs), members and market value of assets, by current service benefit rate, sector, type of plan and contributory status"
7221,"Electric power generation, by class of electricity producer"
4490,"Survey of innovation and business strategy, average number of new product innovations introduced, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and enterprise size, all surveyed industries"
422,This data provides information on contracts issued by the ATSSC. Every three months we will be reporting contracts awarded by the institution in the previous three months.
5389,Summary table. Find data on the average weekly earnings of people employed in educational and related services by year.STC
9307,"Live births, by weeks of gestation and sex, Canada, provinces and territories"
3925,"Quarterly stats on online configured usable storage and online storage provisioned for the Enterprise Data Centers (EDC Barrie, EDC Borden, and EDC Gatineau). "
667,"The total number of people granted permanent resident status in Canada by immigration category (permanent residents): family class, economic immigrants, refugees, other immigrants and category not stated; and the total number of Temporary Foreign Worker work permit holders, International Mobility Program work permit holders, foreign students and humanitarian population; and an overview of permanent and temporary residence, passport and Permanent Resident Card applications received and processed by the CIC Operational Network as a whole (all of CIC's Points of Service, in Canada and overseas), with totals for applications received, network outcomes (withdrawn applications and positive or negative decisions regarding applicant eligibility and admissibility) and the total number of authorizations and visas issued for permanent residents. Note that prior to December 31, 2015, processing times for many of our services were displayed by visa office. This was useful when applications for permanent or temporary residence were always processed by the nearest visa office. However, we now have the ability to move applications around our global network to ensure they are processed as efficiently as possible. This means applications may not be processed at the office closest to where the applicant lives. As a result, only overall processing information is now being reported."
6750,"Capital and repair expenditures, industry sector 72, accommodation and food services"
760,People who have been granted permanent resident status in Canada.
4585,Direct and indirect household energy use and household greenhouse gas emissions
2029,"This contract investigated into the operational, technical and financial parameters that could influence the choice of technology for converting an existing coal-fired generating facility to natural gas. "
2405,"The key objectives of the in-school survey were as follows: 
• to understand the socio-economic background of students attending private post-secondary training institutions (PTIs). 
• to identify reasons/factors that influenced the selection of a private post-secondary program/ institution rather than a public post-secondary program; 
• to assess work and educational transition plans of students post-program; and 
• to detail the level of student satisfaction with the education/services provided. "
5547,"Deaths, by cause, Chapter IX: Diseases of the circulatory system (I00 to I99), age group and sex, Canada"
9405,"Changes in smoking since 1994/95, household population aged 12 and over who reported on smoking every 2 years, between 1994/95 and 2000/01, by age group and sex, Canada and provinces"
3242,"Horizontal 2-D (NAD83) network of interconnected control surveys with approximately 13000 monuments spaced 20 to a maximum of 100 km apart for the Yukon Territory, Northwest Territories and Nunavut.  These networks are comprised of physically marked survey stations across Northern Canada for which horizontal coordinates are determined.  "
7996,"Financial flows, monetary authorities"
509,"A targeted survey on bacterial pathogens in soy products analyzed 3,157 samples for Salmonella, Listeria monocytogenes, Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus), and generic Escherichia coli (E. coli). No Salmonella or Listeria monocytogenes were found in any of the samples. Levels of S. aureus were found to be low in all samples. These are considered to have been produced under sanitary conditions and safe for consumption. High levels of generic E. coli were found in one sample. The CFIA conducted appropriate follow-up activities resulting in follow-up sampling and facility inspections."
8524,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
8145,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
8002,"Government current and capital expenditure on goods and services, 1968 System of National Accounts (SNA)"
7410,"Self-rated mental health, by age group and sex, household population aged 12 and over, (CCHS 3.1, January to June 2005), Canada, provinces and health regions (June 2005 boundaries)"
4820,"Measured adult body mass index (BMI), by age group and sex, household population aged 18 and over excluding pregnant females, Canadian Community Health Survey (CCHS 3.1), Canada"
4299,Year-to-year percentage changes in estimated levels of sales and inventories of wholesale merchants
1358,"Three acoustic surveys were completed between 1999 and 2002 to help determine the feasibility of using hydroacoustics as an index of abundance for pollock (Pollachius virens). The surveys searched areas of the Scotian Shelf in NAFO Divisions 4W, 4X and 5Z in an attempt to locate aggregations of pollock. A summary of these surveys is documented for sets and species caught, both by weight (kg) and proportion of the total weight caught, and, in areas where pollock aggregations were located, transects, species composition and length information were documented. Data components: Position, date, time, depth, voltage, range
PURPOSE: Understanding of pollock biology and population dynamics."
895,This table outlines the contribution limits for deferred profit sharing plans (DPSP) used by administrators to calculate the pension adjustment (PA) and pension adjustment reversal (PAR). The DPSP limits for PA purposes are restricted to the lesser of 18% of the member’s compensation and ½ of the money purchase limit for the year. 
5426,"Water use parameters in manufacturing industries, by industry group, Canada"
6918,"Wholesale trade, sales by the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
7097,"Home care utilization, by age group and sex, household population aged 18 and over, selected provinces, territories and health regions (January 2000 boundaries)"
5927,"Youth courts, guilty cases by type of sentence"
10151,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
7842,"Water discharge in mineral extraction industries, by type of final treatment and North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
3955,Farm product price index (FPPI)
10061,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
6593,"Canadian Community Health Survey (CCHS 3.1) off-reserve Aboriginal profile, by sex, Canada, provinces and territories"
4238,"Labour force survey estimates (LFS), part-time employment by reason for part-time work, sex and age group"
7887,"Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation, housing starts, under construction and completions in all centres of 50,000 and over for Canada and provinces"
2711,Global Investigations Reviews annual survey  of the due process standards of governments. Ratings are based on the responses of investigation specialists. 
9345,"Canadian fertilizer production, by product type and fertilizer year, cumulative data"
1819,Designation of pre-determined station numbers from past sea scallop surveys. Purpose: Resource assessment of sea scallop populations.
9068,"Trusteed pension funds, market and book value of assets, by private and public sector category"
6300,"Radio listening, percentage share by radio station format and audience education level"
4833,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
5268,"Manufacturing sales, by subsector, by province and territory"
4141,"Caregivers receiving federal tax credits for providing care to relatives or friends with a long-term illness, disability or aging needs"
4825,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
5358,"New motor vehicle sales, by province"
6088,"Production, destination of shipments and stocks of construction type plywood, by species"
9083,"Direct plus indirect energy intensity, by industry"
7655,"Persons diagnosed with a primary invasive tumour for all combined ICD-O-3 primary sites of cancer (based on the November 2003 CCR tabulation file), by age group and sex, Canada, provinces and territories"
5495,"New cases for ICD-O-2 primary sites of cancer (based on the September 2002 CCR tabulation file), by sex, Canada, provinces and territories"
1124,"Number of Canada School of Public Service employees by employment status and fiscal year. Includes indeterminate, term, casual, student, secondment and Interchange Canada employees."
9936,"Injuries causing limitation of normal activities, by age group and sex, household population aged 12 and over, territories"
8830,"Federal general government, financial assets and liabilities"
9508,"Sound recording and music publishing, sales based on format of musical recordings"
878,The Individual Statistics by Tax Filing Method (ISTFM) tables present statistics on the filing method of tax filers grouped by their demographic and economic characteristics. The data in the tables are extracted from personal income tax returns that were processed for tax year 2015.
7059,Established natural gas reserves
1123,"Number of Canada School of Public Service employees listed by region and fiscal year. Includes indeterminate, term, casual, student, secondment and Interchange Canada employees."
1374,"Alfred Needler cruise N156: Fishing trials with bottom fixed gears were conducted on the continental slope off Nova Scotia in August 1991. Fishing was conducted at several depths between 500 and 2800m in two areas, one south of Emerald Bank and the other at the mouth of The Gully. Numbers and length-frequencies for fish species caught by gillnets, traps and longline are recorded.
PURPOSE: Exploratory fishing and gear trials."
6467,"Labour force survey estimates (LFS), employment by class of worker, North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and sex, unadjusted for seasonality"
6509,Stocks of frozen and chilled imported meats
3603,Not Available
4608,"Five-year survival estimates for other selected primary sites of cancer, ICD-O-3 (October 2011 CCR file), by age group and sex, population aged 15 to 99, 1 year of cases, Canada (excluding Quebec)"
2357,"The Air Pollutant Emission Inventory (APEI) is an annual report of air pollutant emissions across Canada published by Environment and Climate Change Canada. The report details the release of air pollutants from all known of sources since 1990. The APEI serves many purposes, including:

-supporting the development of air quality management strategies, policies and regulations.
-fulfilling Canada’s domestic and international reporting obligations.
-informing Canadians about pollutants that affect their health and the environment.
-providing data to support air quality forecasting.

Emissions data is available for the following 17 air pollutants for the years 1990-2014:

Criteria air contaminants (CACs):
-Total particulate matter (TPM)
-Particulate matter less than or equal to 10 microns (PM10)
-Particulate matter less than or equal to 2.5 microns (PM2.5)
-Sulphur oxides (SOx)
-Nitrogen oxides (NOx)
-Volatile organic compounds (VOCs)
-Carbon monoxide (CO)
-Ammonia (NH3)

Heavy metals: 
-Mercury (Hg)
-Lead (Pb)
-Cadmium (Cd)

Persistent organic pollutants (POPs): 
-Dioxins and furans (D/F)
-Four polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) compounds (Benzo[a]pyrene, Benzo[b]fluoranthene, Benzo[k]fluoranthene and Indeno[1,2,3-cd]pyrene)
-Hexachlorobenzene (HCB)

This data record breaks down the 1990 emissions of all reported pollutants for Canada by province and territory. To view historical trends of individual substances, please visit the Air Pollutant Emission Inventory Historical Trends data record. To perform more customized selections of APEI data, please visit our website to use our interactive query tool.

The Air Pollutant Emission Inventory is compiled from many different data sources. Emissions data reported by individual facilities to Environment and Climate Change Canada’s National Pollutant Release Inventory are supplemented with well documented, science-based estimation tools to quantify total emissions. Together these data sources provide a comprehensive overview of pollutant emissions across Canada."
1469,"Catch, effort, and location (latitude, longitude) data from ground fish multi-species longline surveys in the Strait of Georgia (formerly the Inshore Rockfish Longline Survey)."
5740,"Survey of digital technology and Internet use, online interaction with governments, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and size of enterprise"
1944,Optical imagery data on the presence of benthic organisms according to substratum type in the Saguenay Fjord and the Estuary of St. Lawrence in 2005 and 2007.
8712,"This table provides statistical information about people in Canada by their demographic, social and economic characteristics as well as provide information about the housing units in which they live."
143,The “Agri-Environmental Indicator (AEI) - Agriculture Ammonia Emissions” dataset provides estimated amounts of ammonia (NH3) emitted into the atmosphere from agricultural lands by agricultural activities areas for census years from 1981 to 2011.
3643,Not Available
10288,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
6513,"Interprovincial in-, out- and net-migrants, Canada, provinces and territories"
5477,Telephone statistics
1282,"NAVNET shipboard data - sounders , navigation, gyros, wind Nav-Net is an on board ship’s data collection system used to collect all streaming data available during an entire mission. These data include all GPS, sounders, all gyros, and wind, motion and USBL data."
1195,"This series reports on human activities that may impact aquatic ecosystems or components of those ecosystems, including the nature of the activities, their extent, their interactions with ecosystem components, and interactions with other human activities on the same areas. Generally, the effects of fisheries on fish stocks were reported in the Stock Status Report series, with regard to their effects on the dynamics of the targeted stocks or bycatch. However, some types of fishing effects were more appropriately included in the HSR series."
6888,"Labour force survey estimates (LFS), duration of unemployment by sex and age group"
7163,"Detailed average operating revenues and expenses of farms, by farm type, incorporated and unincorporated sectors, Canada and provinces"
1285,"The Ocean Data Inventory database is an inventory of all of the oceanographic time series data held by the Ocean Science Division at the Bedford Institute of Oceanography. The data archive includes about 5800 current meter and acoustic doppler time series, 4500 coastal temperature time series from thermographs, as well as a small number (200) of tide gauges. Many of the current meters also have temperature and salinity sensors. The area for which there are data is roughly defined as the North Atlantic and Arctic from 30° - 82° N, although there are some minor amounts of data from other parts of the world. The time period is from 1960 to present. The database is updated on a regular basis."
10340,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
9004,"Business condition survey of the manufacturing sector, by subsectors (quarterly)"
380,"The National Ecological Framework for Canada's ""Landform by Ecozone” series contains tables that provide regional landform information for components within the ecozone framework polygon. It provides landform codes and their English and French-language descriptions as well as information about the percentage of the polygon that the component occupies. Regional landforms generally describe a region and include the various shapes of the land surface resulting from a variety of actions such as deposition or sedimentation (eskers, lacustrine basins), erosion (gullies, canyons), and earth crust movements (mountains). The regional landform classes are: plateau or tableland, hill and mountain, organic wetland, plain, scarp or valley."
6692,"Building permits, dwelling units by type of dwelling and area"
9610,Supply and demand of primary and secondary energy in terajoules
4866,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
7853,"Legal aid plan revenues, by type of revenue"
7797,"Local general government revenue and expenditures, year ending December 31"
4258,"Gross domestic product, expenditure-based"
1804,"1) Adult salmon scales are pressed on acetate slides. Juvenile salmon scales, trout scales and smelt scales are placed between glass slides for age and life history analysis. Slides and remaining scales are inventoried and stored in accessible scale cabinet at NAFC, Salmonid Section. 2) Eggs from fecundity studies are disposed of after complete counts and measurements are done. Approx. 1500 scale samples from Gander River collected in 1951 not yet analysed.  "
2840,"This file contains weekly data from Toronto, Edmonton and Winnipeg on the wholesale price of index 100 hog and retail prices of loin chops, Boston butt, pork sausage and side bacon. The data were collected from April 1974 to January 1976. These datasets have been converted from their legacy file structures and encoding schemes so they can be used by contemporary computers that are based upon the ASCII character-encoding scheme. Each dataset will require specialized software such as a statistical tool, to interpret and analyze the content in each file. The attached codebook describes the file’s structure and defines the variables contained in each field. Each code book is a compilation of the summary description of the dataset as provided by the creating department.  As such, it is available in English only."
7891,"Historical index of constant price gross domestic product (GDP), by industry"
738,"Facts and Figures 2015: Immigration Overview–Permanent Residents presents the annual intake of permanent residents by category of immigration from 1990 to 2015. The main body of the publication consists of a series of statistical tables and charts covering the ten-year period from 2006 to 2015. The report depicts selected characteristics for permanent residents.

The statistics for admission of permanent residents are provided for the three main categories of immigration—family class, economic immigrants and refugees—as well as for other immigrants who do not qualify in any of these categories."
174,The “Annual Unit Runoff (dam3/km2) for a 80% Probability of Exceedence” dataset is a line data set that covers the extent of Canada. It shows the 80% Probability of exceedence annual unit runoff.
5109,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
9830,"Merchandise exports classified by commodity, Paasche Price Index (1981 and 1986), balance of payments basis"
5929,"Inventories held and owned, estimated value in all manufacturing industries"
8361,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
3850,This dataset outlines the Department's planned expenditures in acquired services and projects by Program Activity for the 5 fiscal years from 2015-2016 to 2019-2020. 
1824,Paper records of Seal/Salmon interactions in estuaries.
4863,"Telecommunications statistics, by operating and financial detail and North American Industry Classification (NAICS)"
397,"The National Ecological Framework for Canada's ""Total Land and Water Area by Ecoprovince” dataset provides land and water area values for ecoprovince framework polygons, in hectares. It includes attributes for a polygon’s total area, land-only area and large water body area."
8636,"The Designated Place Boundary Files portray the designated place boundaries for which census data are disseminated. They are available for download in two types: cartographic and digital. Cartographic boundary files depict the geographic areas using only the shorelines of the major land mass of Canada and its coastal islands. Digital boundary files depict the full extent of the geographic areas, including the coastal water area. The files provide a framework for mapping and spatial analysis using commercially available geographic information systems (GIS) or other mapping software."
2268,"Long-term freshwater quality monitoring data for three sites in the Lower Saskatchewan and Nelson River basins for the past 15 years or longer for nutrients, metals, major ions, and other physical-chemical variables are included in this dataset. Monitoring is conducted by Environment and Climate Change Canada (ECCC) to assess water quality status and long-term trends, detect emerging issues, establish water quality guidelines and track the effectiveness of remedial measures and regulatory decisions. The information informs the Lake Winnipeg Basin Initiative and supports activities of the Prairie Provinces Water Board (PPWB)."
2687,Information on passive repeaters. NOTE:  Superseded by the SMS Spectrum Management System (SMS) Authorization Data Extract. 
3163,Molecular characterization of dsRNA in Heterobasidion irregulare and Heterobasidion occidentale and effects on growth and sporulation - stored at NCBI Genbank
5893,"Low income statistics by age, sex and economic family type, Canada, provinces and selected census metropolitan areas (CMAs)"
5097,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
7794,Proven and probable silver reserves
6543,"Major and junior department store sales (excluding and including concessions), Canada, provinces, territories and selected census metropolitan areas"
6915,"Implicit price indexes, gross domestic product (GDP)"
2201,"Particle data from Canadian and U.S. ground-based monitoring networks from 1982 forward include the following: 	AOD (Aerosol Optical Depth), Aerosol_SD (Aerosol Size Distribution), Aerosol_No (Aerosol Number), Aerosol_Ext (Aerosol Extinction), Aerosol_BC (Aerosol Black Carbon), Aerosol_Chemistry (Aerosol Chemical Composition), PM_Mass (Particulate Matter Mass), PM_2.5 (Particulate Matter  <= 2.5 microns), PM_10 (Particulate Matter  <= 10 microns) and Metals.  For further information about NAtChem Particles Data see the Monitoring of Atmospheric Patricles_Metadata.pdf file.  These measurements help scientists to understand the linkages among the aerosol chemical composition, aerosol radiative properties, cloud formation and precipitation."
1831,Commercial fishing log data as submitted to DFO. Data breakdown is on a set-by-set or daily basis. Purpose: Research/stock/management assessment.
3859,"This dataset is the structured release of Government Electronic Tendering Service news items that inform the public, including businesses and suppliers, about important data related to Government of Canada procurement. This includes data related to tender notices on the Government Electronic Tendering Service, related service advisories, and procurement related web services."
1281,"Negatives of photos and prints including Radar images and aerial photos are stored with ODIS. There are boxes full of these, some have been incorporated into publications, but most of them only exist in these originals."
8249,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
7644,"Canadian passenger bus and urban transit industries, fuel consumption, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
5160,"The boundary files portray the geographic limits used for census dissemination. They are available for download in two types: cartographic and digital. Cartographic boundary files depict the geographic areas using only the shorelines of the major land mass of Canada and its coastal islands. Digital boundary files depict the full extent of the geographic areas, including the coastal water area. The files provide a framework for mapping and spatial analysis using commercially available geographic information systems (GIS) or other mapping software."
2769,"This file contains general time series econometric data contributing to a Prices and Incomes Commission study on wage and price changes in the Canadian economy. The data cover the time period between 1947 and 1971.These datasets have been converted from their legacy file structures and encoding schemes so they can be used by contemporary computers that are based upon the ASCII character-encoding scheme. Each dataset will require specialized software such as a statistical tool, to interpret and analyze the content in each file. The attached codebook describes the file’s structure and defines the variables contained in each field. Each code book is a compilation of the summary description of the dataset as provided by the creating department.  As such, it is available in English only."
2960,"Presents interpreted records from the Seismic shothole drillers' log databse, and thematic geoscience digital and spatial reconstructions pertaining to bedrock outcrop and subcrop locations and type, geohazards (buried ice, water, gas, flowing holes) and muskeg thickness in continental NWT and Yukon."
4478,"Provincial gross domestic product (GDP) at basic prices in current dollars, System of National Accounts (SNA) benchmark values, by sector and North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
4157,"Advertising and related services, summary statistics, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
5901,"Survey of Employment, Payrolls and Hours (SEPH), employment for all employees, by enterprise size and North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
8766,Financial statistics for enterprises (quarterly)
4565,"Manufacturing activities, by Standard Industrial Classification, 1980 (SIC)"
5320,"Canada and Quebec pension plan benefits for adults with disabilities, by disability type and severity"
1257,"Polygons denoting concentrations of sea pens, small and large gorgonian corals and sponges on the east coast of Canada have been identified through spatial analysis of research vessel survey by-catch data following an approach used by the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Organization (NAFO) in the Regulatory Area (NRA) on Flemish Cap and southeast Grand Banks. Kernel density analysis was used to identify high concentrations and the area occupied by successive catch weight thresholds was used to identify aggregations. These analyses were performed for each of the five biogeographic zones of eastern Canada. The largest sea pen fields were found in the Laurentian Channel as it cuts through the Gulf of St. Lawrence, while large gorgonian coral forests were found in the Eastern Arctic and on the northern Labrador continental slope. Large ball-shaped Geodia spp. sponges were located along the continental slopes north of the Grand Banks, while on the Scotian Shelf a unique population of the large barrel-shaped sponge Vazella pourtalesi was identified. The latitude and longitude marking the positions of all tows which form these and other dense aggregations are provided along with the positions of all tows which captured black coral, a non-aggregating taxon which is long-lived and vulnerable to fishing pressures.  These polygons identify sea pen fields from the broader distribution of seapens in the region as sampled by Alfredo trawl gear in the Eastern Arctic biogeographic zone. A 0.25 kg minimum threshold for the sea pen catch was identified as the weight that separated the sea pen field habitat from the broader distribution of sea pens with these research vessel tow data and gear type."
2531,Listing of all files stored in Waterloo Records Room
3490,"The park measures forest regeneration and succession on 15 EMAN plots in deciduous and mixed forests on Beausoleil Island. The surveys report on the number, height class and survival of tree seedlings and saplings."
2748,This dataset contains base amount of child support based on 1) the number of children; 2) the province or territory where the paying parent lives; and 3) the paying parent's annual income before tax.
8439,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
3462,Terra Nova National Park monitors crab populations for the presence of the invasive European Green Crab; the abundance of native Rock Crab is also monitored. Park personnel uses baited traps for these surveys.
4370,"Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation, preliminary housing starts in urban centres of 10,000 and over"
4834,"Distribution of farm operators by income group and farm type, with selected average incomes, unincorporated sector"
9479,"Water acquisition costs in mineral extraction and thermal-electric power generation industries, by region"
2337,"There are 16 metals or metal compounds, which are not listed on the List of Toxic Substances of CEPA 1999, included in this grouping. The main metals, in terms of quantities reported, are manganese, zinc and copper and their compounds. Other substances are: aluminum; chromium; vanadium except when in an alloy, and their compounds; cobalt; selenium; silver; antimony; aluminum oxide as fibrous forms; molybdenum trioxide; titanium tetrachloride; iron pentacarbonyl; lithium carbonate; and thorium dioxide.

The National Pollutant Release Inventory (NPRI) is Canada's public inventory of pollutant releases (to air, water and land), disposals and transfers for recycling. Under the authority of the Canadian Environmental Protection Act, 1999 (CEPA 1999), owners or operators of facilities in Canada that meet the published reporting requirements are required to report to the NPRI.  Reported pollutants include toxic substances, air pollutants and other substances of concern.

NPRI data is available for the years 1993 - 2013 in a number of formats including online query tools, downloadable datasets (along with corresponding database structure tables) and map layers.

There are important factors that should be considered prior to the use and interpretation of NPRI data.  Additional information is available on the NPRI web site."
9509,Food available in Canada
9606,"Life stress, by age group and sex, household population aged 18 and over, Canada and provinces"
7926,"Financial information of universities and degree-granting colleges, revenues by type of funds"
6633,"Pain or discomfort by severity, by age group and sex, household population aged 4 and over, Canada and provinces"
7467,"Merchandise imports and exports, by major groups and principal trading areas for all countries"
4420,"Consolidated capital finance account, disposition (gross domestic capital formation), 1968 System of National Accounts (SNA)"
1166,Statistics Canada annual questionnaire on education related expenditures.
10078,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
9661,"Income per resident-day in residential care facilities, by principal characteristic of the predominant group of residents and size of facility, Canada, provinces and territories"
2524,"Fifth Story manages a database of content, such as news articles, that media outlets can access and publish. Data includes reports of media coverage related to FDO articles distributed by Fifth Story. Data includes Fifth Story service type, issue, date clip published, media outlet, city/reach, region, media type and article name. "
9918,"High blood pressure, by age group and sex, household population aged 12 and over, Canada, provinces, territories, health regions (June 2005 boundaries) and peer groups"
5101,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
2625,"Short and long term drinking water advisories that are in place in First Nation communities on reserve located in Canada. Drinking water advisories are preventive measures put in place to protect public health from drinking water that could be contaminated. In a First Nation community, a drinking water advisory can affect as little as one building and does not always represent a community-wide drinking water problem. Drinking water advisories are put in place for various reasons. For instance, a community may issue an advisory if there are problems in the overall water system, such as line breaks, equipment failure, or poor filtration/disinfection during water treatment. Communities may also choose to issue a drinking water advisory as a precautionary measure, such as when there are emergency repairs in the water distribution system or if a community does not have a trained Water System Operator or Community-based Drinking Water Quality Monitor in place."
8235,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
312,This data shows spatial density of Corn cultivation in Canada. Regions with higher calculated spatial densities represent agricultural regions of Canada in which Corn is more expected. Results are provided as rasters with numerical values for each pixel indicating the spatial density calculated for that location. Higher spatial density values represent higher likelihood to have Corn based on analysis of the 2009 to 2016 AAFC annual crop inventory data.
2969,These tables outline changes in the energy consumption and other characteristics of major household appliances shipped in Canada between 1990 and 2014.
3863,"Foreign Military Sales Financial Total Contract Values, Values of Total Payments and Values of Goods/Services Acquired by Case."
3699,"The primary purpose of the authority codes is to identify expenditure transactions for accountability and reporting in the Public Accounts of Canada according to the specific votes and other authorities in the Estimates, other authorities included in specific statutes; and in addition, to identify the nature of revenue, by tax and non-tax revenue. Other authority codes (non-appropriated authorities) are also established by central agencies to facilitate the identification of various accounting transactions that do not require the use of appropriations. An appropriation is an authority of Parliament to pay money out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund (CRF) and as such, provides parliamentarians with control over most expenditures of the government. As a general rule, transactions are recorded against an appropriation on an expenditure basis; however, there are certain expenditures that are not charged to an appropriation until a payment is required. The authority code identify expenditures transactions as follows: Statutory expenditures Statutory expenditures are those that Parliament has approved through legislation (other than Appropriations Act) that set out the purpose of the expenditures and the terms and conditions under which they may be made. Non-statutory expenditures are those that Parliament approves annually through an Appropriation Act. Once approved the vote wording and the expenditure authority attributable to each vote become the governing conditions under which these expenditures may be made. Non-appropriated transactions Non-appropriated authority codes identify accounting transactions that do not require the use of appropriations (i.e., expenditure or revenue are already recognized [e.g., amortization expense or the receipt of revenue credited to vote] or expenditure is not charged to appropriations until the payment is required [e.g., severance pay])."
5864,"Family characteristics, labour income profile, by family type"
627,"Temporary residents who are in Canada on a work permit or study permit in the observed calendar year. Datasets include Temporary Foreign Worker Program (TFWP) and International Mobility Program (IMP) work permit and study permit holders by year in which permit(s) became effective. Please note that in these datasets, the figures have been suppressed or rounded to prevent the identification of individuals when the datasets are compiled and compared with other publicly available statistics. Values between 0 and 5 are shown as “--“ and all other values are rounded to the nearest multiple of 5. This may result to the sum of the figures not equating to the totals indicated."
2189,"Data were compiled in campaign mode and were obtained over the ice of the central Arctic Ocean north of Svalbard, using the OOTI (Out On The Ice) light mobile laboratory powered by a bank of 12 VDC batteries. Chemical variables were collected with instrumentation detailed below. Mercury (Hg): Gardis (atomic absorption spectroscopy) instrumentation displayed strong dependence of the cell desorption with battery voltage, thus data are not archived. Bromine monoxide (BrO): Data were collected by a hybrid MAXDOAS (multi-axis differential optical absorption spectrometer) which was built by the University of Heidelberg and Hoffmann Messtechnik GmbH with an integrated scan head designed by the University of Alaska Fairbanks. Bromine monoxide and oxygen dimer data were taken at variable temporal resolution depending on ambient light intensity and are all included in one file for the entire campaign. Surface Ozone (O3): 5 minutes averages are taken with 2B technology ozone monitor and all data have been archived in one combined data file. A record of GPS location of the measurement period at one minute resolution is archived in one file. Existing gaps in the data are due to poor ice conditions not permitting deployment over the ice, instrumentation maintenance or power interruption. This study was part of the FPO OASIS-CANADA program and ASCOS, Arctic Summer Cloud Ocean Study."
2875,"Canada’s Energy Future 2016: Energy Supply and Demand Projections to 2040 contains a projection of future energy supply and demand trends in Canada and historical data to 2005. Given the numerous uncertainties and factors that may affect forward trends, the data includes six possible future scenarios based on different assumptions. The methodology is also provided to provide context in understanding the data. The source code for how the National Energy Board visualized this data, is also available. "
3025,"Canada3D is a digital elevation model (DEM) produced by the Canadian Forestry Service, Ontario region. The DEM consists of an ordered array of ground elevations providing coverage of the entire Canadian landmass."
6443,"Labour force survey estimates (LFS), unemployment by type of work sought and search method, sex and age group"
8436,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
831,Inventory of surplus IT assets held by the CNSC
304,"The “Soil Landscapes of Canada V.2.2/V.3.1 - Soil Order” displays the highest (most general) level of soil classification. Within the Canadian System of Soil Classification there are ten recognized soil orders (Soil Classification Working Group 1998). This system is hierarchical (from general to specific). Soil orders are further subdivided to great groups, subgroups, families, and series."
2395,"The Canada Education Savings Program (CESP) Reporting Database  (RDB) is used for public reporting, data analysis, and policy research where personal client identifiers are masked for privacy purposes.
The RDB consists of large raw data tables accessed by CESP data analysts using SAS statistical software to extract, compile and analyze data related to Registered Education Savings Plans (RESPs) and associated post-secondary education (PSE) savings incentives administered by the CESP.  The RDB stores all transactions that have occurred since 1998 to date that encompasses over 5 million program beneficiaries, their subscribers, RESP contributions, Grant and Bond disbursements including RESP withdrawals made to fund PSE studies."
8690,"This table provides statistical information about people in Canada by their demographic, social and economic characteristics as well as provide information about the housing units in which they live."
8965,Local government revenue and expenditures
6603,"Smoking cessation aids, by age group and sex, household population aged 12 and over, selected provinces, territories and health regions (January 2000 boundaries)"
281,"Average length of the growing season (Tavg ≥ 5.5 °C) based on the period between 1979 and 2008.This analysis was based on temperature values interpolated at 10 km using the ANUSPLIN method, based on data from the Ministère du Développement durable, de l'Environnement et des Parcs du Québec and from Environment Canada.The length of the growing season is associated with the period when the weather conditions of a region allow for the growth of a crop. For a given region, it corresponds to the period when the average temperature stays above 5.5 °C. Given that this indicator is directly linked to crop growth and development, it is a particularly important tool in planning and managing long-term agricultural production and when making strategic decisions, such as evaluating a region’s agricultural potential."
4257,"EmpIoyment Insurance Program (E.I.), earnings of employees contributing to employment insurance program by province and sex"
8280,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
5724,"Diabetes, by age group and sex, household population aged 12 and over, Canada, provinces, territories, health regions (June 2005 boundaries) and peer groups"
4774,"Wholesale trade, sales by trade group based on the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
3777,"At the end of each fiscal year, the Receiver general of Canada publishes financial information in the Public Accounts. This dataset presents a two‑year comparative of the Supplementary Retirement Benefits Account (which provides for pension benefit increases resulting from changes in the Consumer Price Index. )"
10598,Mailing costs and courier Outgoing mail and courier costs / costs per business group 
4232,"Intake water treatment in mineral extraction industries, by type of treatment and North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
9579,"Labour force survey estimates (LFS), weekly wage distributions of employees by type of work, National Occupational Classification (NOC) and sex"
2279,"The long-term freshwater quality monitoring network consisted of federal and federal-provincial sampling sites at various locations and various frequency throughout British Columbia's aquatic ecosystems. Measurements regularly include physicochemical parameters such as temperature, pH, alkalinity, major ions, nutrients and metals. The network, intended specifically to supply water quality data in accordance with the Canada Water Act, is, for the most part, managed through federal-provincial-territorial, international and inter-provincial agreements."
5784,"Labour force survey estimates (LFS), by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS), sex and age group, unadjusted for seasonality"
8312,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
1332,"Research into the maturity and reproduction of female lobsters.
PURPOSE: To determine if changes in sexual maturity in lobsters may have occurred or stayed the same compared to data from 20 years ago."
4919,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
4481,"Premature and potentially avoidable mortality, three-year average, Canada, provinces, territories, health regions and peer groups"
8226,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
5020,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
1456,Fishery-dependent commercial crab fishery gridded catch and effort information.
7452,"Number of shelters operating and responding to transition home survey, by facility type"
5037,"Commercial rents services price index, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
254,"The “Terrestrial Ecodistricts of Canada” dataset provides representations of ecodistricts. An ecodistrict is a subdivision of an ecoregion and is characterized by distinctive assemblages of relief, landforms, geology, soil, vegetation, water bodies and fauna. For example, the Jeddore Lake ecodistrict (no. 473) is one of five ecodistricts within the Maritime Barrens ecoregion."
3802,"The moment a payment request is entered by a department using their Departmental Financial and Materiel Management Systems (DFMS), payment data is forwarded to the Standard Payment System (SPS) for processing. On a daily basis SPS sends a summary level payment control data file to the Receiver General-General Ledger (RG-GL). As a result, this dataset contains summary data sent to RG-GL and reported to the financial reporting account (FRA) 61ddd (where “ddd’’ is a department number).  This FRA enables the Receiver General (RG) to reconcile information provided by SPS and all DFMSs. It is to be noted that the entries recorded in 61ddd of the RG-GL is opposite as to debit (DR) or credit (CR) entries recorded in a DFMS."
10165,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
317,The “Stations used for Unit Runoff Analysis” dataset is a point data set for select hydrological stations that covers the extent of Canada.
2453,"Phoenix Strategic Perspectives Inc. (Phoenix SPI) was commissioned by Human Resources and Skills Development Canada (HRSDC) to conduct a survey with Canadians 18 years and older to explore issues related to the Employment Insurance (EI) Program. The results will be used by HRSDC to better understand public perceptions of the program and to help identify policy considerations related to recommendations and proposals made by various stakeholders to reform aspects of the program. This study tracks data from similar surveys conducted from 1998 to 2010.
For this year’s study, a dual-mode research methodology was used – a telephone survey and an online survey."
10095,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
9448,"Federal expenditures on science and technology and its components, by socio-economic objectives"
2756,Grants and contributions awarded by the Department of Justice.
6576,"Intellectual property management, by federal departments and agencies indicators"
3450,"This line layer shows the locations of docks and quays on Parks Canada sites, docks or quays owned by Parks Canada, or docks and quays of interest to Parks Canada."
1884,"Redfish catch and biological data (sampled weight, length, sex, fin-ray numbers) collected by the dockside monitoring program of commercial catches in the Estuary and Gulf of St. Lawrence since 1980."
2162,"Accurate tracking of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions is an important part of assessing Canada’s overall environmental performance. Environment and Climate Change Canada's Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reporting Program (GHGRP) collects GHG emissions information annually from the largest emitting Canadian facilities on a mandatory basis. 

All facilities that emit the equivalent of 50 kilotonnes or more of GHGs in carbon dioxide equivalent units per year are required to submit a report. 

Facility GHG emissions reporting contributes to the development, implementation and evaluation of climate change and energy use policies and strategies by providing a more precise picture of the sources and amounts of GHG emissions from Canada's largest emitters.

Emissions data are available by gas, including carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), hydrofluorocarbons (HFC), perfluorocarbons (PFC) and sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) (given in tonnes and tonnes of CO2 equivalent of each gas), for each facility and each year in the time series (2004-2014). 

Note: All facility data expressed in CO2 equivalent values incorporate revised global warming potential (GWP) values that are now used internationally for GHG reporting. Facility emissions data reported in previous years (i.e., 2004-2012) were recalculated accordingly."
6337,"Incident-based crime statistics, by detailed violations and police services, Ontario"
1065,The indicator represents the total number of Preliminary Assessment reports completed on-time per the total number of Preliminary Assessment reports that were due for the reporting period (within 5 working days of sentence commencement date).
10263,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
4917,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
6037,"Survey of innovation and business strategy, relationship with main suppliers by region, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and enterprise size, all surveyed industries"
1425,"The basking shark is a large and highly migratory species commonly found off Atlantic Canada in the summer months. Much of the biology of this gentle giant remains unknown. One key question is why do these sharks seem to disappear between late fall and the following summer, and where do they go during this time? Some believe they travel into deeper waters for the winters months, shedding their gill rakers (which they use to filter plankton) before hibernating for the winter. However, this remains an untested hypothesis.
PURPOSE: Research and Stock Assessment."
8981,Canada's international investment position
9833,"Number of non-permanent residents, Canada, provinces and territories"
10556,"This data presents population counts for the Federal Public Service (i.e. all departments and agencies governed by the Financial Administration Act (FAA) Schedules I, IV and V)."
1189,"Created in 2005, Science Advisory Reports include traditional Stock Status Reports, Ecosystem Status Reports, and Habitat Status Reports. Moreover, management strategies, frameworks and guidelines on the assessment or evaluation on specific issues, impacts of human activities on ecosystem components as well as recovery assessments on a species or population, are also included in this series."
9133,"New cases for all combined ICD-O-2 primary sites of cancer (based on the September 2002 CCR tabulation file), by age group and sex, Canada, provinces and territories"
388,"The National Ecological Framework for Canada's ""Surface Form by Ecoprovince"" dataset contains tables that provide surface form information for components within the ecoprovince framework polygon. It provides surface form codes and their English and French-language descriptions as well as information about the percentage of the polygon that the component occupies. Surface form descriptions describe assemblages of slopes or recurring patterns of forms that occur at the earth's surface. When applied to consolidated materials (material that has been transformed to hard rock), it refers to the form produced after modification by geological processes. The mineral soil surface forms are: dissected; hummocky (irregular); inclined; level, rolling; ridged; steep; terraced; undulating. The wetland surface forms are: bog; fen; marsh; swamp."
8208,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
4402,Net farm income
4525,"Film, television and video production, production revenue by type of production"
8415,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
4670,"Business conditions survey, Canadian manufacturing industries, by province"
4338,"Homicide survey, victims of spousal homicide, by region"
10486,"Owner households and tenant households by major payments and gross rent as a percentage of 2005 household income, by province and territory (2006 Census)"
4027,"Post-secondary graduates, proportion of population aged 25 to 54, Canada, provinces, territories and health regions, 1996"
6868,"Age-specific divorce rates per 1,000 legally married females, Canada, provinces and territories"
1417,"Daily water temperature data (average, min., max, STD) for various sites (generally at counting fences or fishways) within primarily the Saint John River.
PURPOSE: Monitoring water temperatures during the migration of diadromous fish, especially Atlantic salmon."
103,Data to support delivery of the Agricultural Flexibility Fund (AgriFlexibility) which is a five year program that will improve the sector's competitiveness and will help the sector adapt to pressures through non-business risk-management measures.Data includes Canadian for-profit and not for-profit organization tombstone data and project specific information collected in order to apply for funding for one-time projects.  Completed projects may have results and performance information.
9718,"Low income statistics by economic family type, Canada, provinces and selected census metropolitan areas (CMAs)"
6225,"Participation and activity limitation, by age group and sex, household population aged 12 and over, Canada, provinces, territories, health regions (June 2005 boundaries) and peer groups"
6850,"International investment position, direct investment conceptual presentations"
9265,"Book publishers, operating expenses, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
393,"The National Ecological Framework for Canada's ""Surface Material by Ecoregion” dataset provides surface material information within the ecoregion framework polygon. It provides surface material codes and their English and French language descriptions as well as information about the percentage of the polygon that the component occupies.
 Surface material includes the abiotic material at the earth's surface. The materials can be: ICE and SNOW - Glacial ice and permanent snow ORGANIC SOIL - Contains more than 30% organic matter as measured by weight ROCK - Rock undifferentiated MINERAL SOIL - Predominantly mineral particles: contains less than 30% organic matter as measured by weight URBAN - Urban areas. Note that only a few major urban area polygons are included on SLC source maps, therefore, do not use for tabulating total urban coverage"""
8613,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
8685,"This table provides statistical information about people in Canada by their demographic, social and economic characteristics as well as provide information about the housing units in which they live."
10418,"Water files are provided for the mapping of inland and coastal waters, Great Lakes and the St. Lawrence River. These files were created to be used in conjunction with the boundary files."
9362,Raw materials price index
9541,"Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation, vacancy rates, row and apartment structures of three units and over, privately initiated in census agglomerations of 50,000 and over, weighted average"
1594,Diet and feeding of Atlantic Salmon. Purpose: Stock assessment/Research papers.
6524,"Low income measures by income source and household size, 2011 constant dollars"
6131,"Net income of provincial and territorial liquor authorities and government revenue from the control and sale of alcoholic beverages, fiscal years ended March 31"
2742,The bulk XML files for all consolidated federal Acts and Regulations is a complete collection of the full document XML files for all consolidated Acts and Regulations found on the Justice Laws Website. 
158,The “Agri-Environmental Indicator (AEI) - Risk of Wind Erosion on Cultivated Land” dataset provides the estimated rate of soil loss from wind for Soil Landscapes of Canada agricultural areas for census years from 1981 to 2011.
3215,Number of males and female spruce budworm moths caught daily in canopy traps placed above the tree tops.
2101,"Carbon fluxes and concentrations (carbon dioxide, CO2, and methane, CH4) were measured in various aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems across the eastern Canadian Arctic. Firstly, this study aimed to quantify summer CO2 and CH4 emissions for the full range of aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems in the subarctic zone, more exactly in the Kuujjuarapik area, and to examine the importance of limnology, vegetation cover and underlying substrate on spatial variations in C emissions. Emissions of CO2 and CH4 were measured using a static flux chamber (SFC) and concentrations were determined by dual detector gas chromatography. These fluxes were then scaled by cover type to give a first estimate of this subarctic region's landscape scale summer emissions of CO2 and CH4. Secondly, another objective of this research was to determine net ecosystem exchange (NEE) in the eastern Canadian subarctic ecosystems, more precisely over shrub vegetation in forest tundra, and to examine the implication of climatic factors, such as precipitation and temperature, on annual and seasonal variability. An open path Eddy Covariance System, including 3D anemometer, CO2/H2O open path infrared gas analyzer and specific meteorological sensors were used for continuous in situ measurements. Carbon dioxide exchanges were then compiled to give a first estimate of NEE budget of this subarctic region. Finally, we aimed to compare soil C content with the general trends of CO2 exchange along a gradient spanning 55° to 73°N in the Canadian eastern Arctic and to relate this to spatial trends in vegetation communities. Emissions of CO2 and CH4 over soil were measured using a static flux chamber (SFC) and concentrations were determined by dual detector gas chromatography and infrared analyzer. NEE were measured using BOWEN RATIO systems, and closed path infrared analyzer. The data set includes measurements from Kuujjuarapik, Umiujaq, Pond Inlet and Bylot Island (2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009)."
216,The “Gross and Effective Drainage Areas for Hydrometric Gauging Stations of the AAFC Watersheds Project - 2013” dataset is a table that provides the calculated gross and effective drainage areas associated with the hydrometric gauging stations of the Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada (AAFC) Watersheds Project. Areas are provided in square kilometres. ‘Gross drainage’ describes the total area of a catchment. ‘Effective drainage’ describes areas that are expected to contribute to an average runoff.
4099,"Deaths and mortality rates, by age group and sex, Canada, provinces and territories"
6974,"Canadian vehicle survey, number of vehicles in scope, by type of vehicle and age of vehicle model"
2788,"This file contains data for a 1973 survey undertaken to aid the Public Service Staff Relations Board in providing information on the pay rates, hours of work, education and field of work for use during contract negotiations. These datasets have been converted from their legacy file structures and encoding schemes so they can be used by contemporary computers that are based upon the ASCII character-encoding scheme. Each dataset will require specialized software such as a statistical tool, to interpret and analyze the content in each file. The attached codebook describes the file’s structure and defines the variables contained in each field. Each code book is a compilation of the summary description of the dataset as provided by the creating department.  As such, it is available in English only."
10654,Cleaned and vetted by TC list of fire stations across Canada originally provided through a contract service with CIRRELT
5624,"Exposure to second-hand smoke at home, by age group and sex, non-smoking household population aged 12 and over, Canada, provinces, territories, health regions (June 2005 boundaries) and peer groups"
5913,"Sales of alcoholic beverages by liquor authorities and other retail outlets, by type of outlet"
2293,"Environment Canada provided state-of-the art, 24/7 dedicated, venue-specific weather alerting services and environmental emergency support for the Toronto 2015 Pan and Parapan American Games. The TO2015 Games were also a catalyst for improving existing weather services through research and demonstration projects that will benefit future generations of Canadians. ASTD Datasets associated with this initiative include AMMOS Data from 3 mobile weather stations; ATMOS Data from 10 surface weather stations; and Radar data – relevant data from EC and NOAA radars. "
4246,"Farm input price index, supplies and services"
8593,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
2942,"This data set consists of greyscale reliefs created from digital multibeam bathymetry data collected by the Geological Survey of Canada (Atlantic). Multibeam bathymetry surveys use sonar to map the seafloor. Sound is transmitted toward the seabed in beams formed using an array of piezoelectric transducers and as the vessel moves through the water, the acoustic signals or ""pings"" bounce back off the seabed returning up to the water surface where they are detected by the transducer and recorded on board. Measurement of acoustic velocity variations in the water column permit conversion of  ""ping"" return time to water depth. Compilation and processing of these soundings within a Geographic Information System (GIS) yields a 3-dimensional digital elevation model (DEM) of the seafloor. The individual surveys cover areas of particular interest to the marine geoscientists at the Geological Survey of Canada (Atlantic)."
8071,"Survey of household spending (SHS), household spending, by household tenure"
7262,"Vocational training education expenditures, by type of program and direct source of funds"
7205,"Private sector employment flow rates expressed as a percentage of employment, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
6429,Electric utility construction price indexes (EUCPI)
2964,"These tables contain most of the energy, GHG, activity and price data used by the Office of Energy Efficiency for its analysis."
747,"Facts and Figures 2015: Immigration Overview–Permanent Residents presents the annual intake of permanent residents by category of immigration from 1990 to 2015. The main body of the publication consists of a series of statistical tables and charts covering the ten-year period from 2006 to 2015. The report depicts selected characteristics for permanent residents.

The statistics for admission of permanent residents are provided for the three main categories of immigration—family class, economic immigrants and refugees—as well as for other immigrants who do not qualify in any of these categories."
4043,"Use of business practices, by business practice type, North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and enterprise size"
9635,Process cheese production
5530,"The Geographic Attribute File contains data at the dissemination block level, based on 2011 Census standard geographic areas. The data available include population counts, dwelling counts, and land area.
"
8817,"Population by mother tongue, by census metropolitan area , excluding institutional residents (2011 Census)"
4394,"Railway transport survey, inventory of equipment in service summary of regional railways"
8888,"Summary table. Find data on mood disorders including: depression, bipolar disorder, mania or dysthymia, by province and territory by year. Number of persons. STC"
7022,"Trucking financial statistics, by industry group"
4131,"Distribution of the household population by Children's body mass index (BMI) - World Health Organization (WHO) classification system, by sex and age group"
394,"The National Ecological Framework for Canada's ""Surface Material by Ecoprovince” dataset provides surface material information within the ecoprovince framework polygon. It provides surface material codes and their English and French language descriptions as well as information about the percentage of the polygon that the component occupies.
 Surface material includes the abiotic material at the earth's surface. The materials can be: ICE and SNOW - Glacial ice and permanent snow ORGANIC SOIL - Contains more than 30% organic matter as measured by weight ROCK - Rock undifferentiated MINERAL SOIL - Predominantly mineral particles: contains less than 30% organic matter as measured by weight URBAN - Urban areas. Note that only a few major urban area polygons are included on SLC source maps, therefore, do not use for tabulating total urban coverage"""
5868,Edible oils and fats
975,An annual publication released on CSA website with the aggregate results of the annual data collection sent out to all Canadian organizations (academic and businesses) involved in the space sector.
3902,"Internal order mapping to projects and their attributes, including project type, name, group, status, as well as OPI, source of fund, department.  Internal orders are used to track project costs as well as ongoing horizontal costs."
1017,The indicator represents the total number and type of seizure methods used in relation to drug-related seizure incidents in federal institutions.  A drug-related seizure incident may involve more than one method of seizure. 
4979,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
4619,"Cancer incidence, by selected sites of cancer and sex, three-year average, Canada, provinces, territories and health regions (2011 boundaries)"
2375,"Information related to intellectual property (IP) that is subject to the ESDC IP Management Policy (on iService), including IP created and/or acquired, which has a commercial value, that pertains to software or technological tools, a formal government publication, official marks or trade-marks of the government, assignments, licenses obtained or given to third parties, and all other IP and/or permissions of significant value or importance."
2427,"• Awareness of Registered Education Savings Plans (RESPs) and Canada Education Savings Program (CESP) Products
• Attitudes Toward post-secondary education (PSE), Saving for PSE and Financial Institutions
• RESP Information
• RESP Contribution Patterns
• Process and Barriers for RESP Holders
• Process and Barriers for Non-RESP Holders
• Automatic Enrolment and Privacy"
5367,"Fruit and vegetable consumption, 5 times or more per day, by age group and sex"
5277,"Area of fruit, berries and nuts, vegetables, sod, nursery and greenhouse products, by province (Census of Agriculture, 1986 to 2006)"
5015,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
5777,"Treatment of main source of water by households, Canada, provinces and census metropolitan areas (CMA)"
9174,"Canadian government finance statistics (CGFS), statement of operations and balance sheet for health and social service institutions"
1768,"Samples of Bluefin Tuna were collected at Virgin Rocks, Grand Banks of Newfoundland and analysed for trace elements. Purpose: For those interested in contaminants research."
3712,"At the end of each fiscal year, financial information is published in the Public Accounts. This dataset, based on its Volume 1, provides a two year comparative analysis of Government operational expenses (in millions of dollars) with outside parties. It includes data taken from Table 3.6 — External Expenses by Type (prior to 2008) and External Expenses by Segment and by Type (2008 and after). This dataset is from the Public Accounts of Canada and is not the official record of information. The official version of record can be found on the Receiver General website for the most recent fiscal year and the Library and Archives website for historical years. "
8026,"Perceived health, by sex, household population aged 12 and over, Canada, provinces and territories"
7442,"Five-year survival estimates for primary sites of cancer, ICD-O-3 (October 2011 CCR file), by sex, population aged 15 to 99, 1 year of cases, selected provinces"
526,"This report presents quality data on the oil, protein, glucosinolate contents and the fatty acid composition of oriental (Brassica juncea), brown (Brassica juncea) and yellow (Sinapis alba) mustard exports for 2015-16."
3673,"At the end of each fiscal year, the Receiver general of Canada publishes financial information in the Public Accounts. These datasets present the year‑end balances of cash and accounts receivable by category, a summary of the cash and cash equivalents, taxes receivable by tax stream and the balances for other receivables"
2044,"This report reviews how primary suppliers have responded to the Benzene in Gasoline Regulations of the Canadian Environmental Protection Act, 1999. All producers and importers of gasoline must submit reports annually to ECCC reporting on the composition of the gasoline they supplied in that year. "
5919,"Railway transport survey, operating and income accounts of regional railways"
1832,"Logbook data collected from fishers of less than 100 ft boats. Otter trawls from 150-600 meters. In Fortune Bay, data from less than 65 foot boats using beam trawlers. Purpose: Describe fishery, stock status. Spatial distribution of fishery and how it changes over time. Describe catch rates."
1687,Multispecies ages of fish. Purpose: Used in stock assessments and supported biological studies.
600,"Qualified people who have been placed into the Express Entry pool of candidates.

Please note that in these datasets, the figures have been suppressed or rounded to prevent the identification of individuals when the datasets are compiled and compared with other publicly available statistics. Values between 0 and 5 are shown as “--“ and all other values are rounded to the nearest multiple of 5. This may result to the sum of the figures not equating to the totals indicated."
7751,"Total value of construction work performed, new and repair, by type of structure and by residential and institutional services, actual data"
3627,Not Available
3483,"The park is developing a protocol to monitor Northern Map Turtles as they congregate to bask along rock outcrops and shorelines on Georgian Bay. The measure will be completed annually through field observations of suitable basking sites. Turtles are long-living slowly-reproducing reptiles and play an important role of scavengers and predators in freshwater ecosystems. By monitoring the park will be able to track changes over time, identify potential threats and thereby achieving conservation goals."
7039,Number of hogs on farms at end of quarter
4424,"Premature and potentially avoidable mortality, three-year average, Canada, provinces, territories, health regions and peer groups"
4223,"University education expenditures, by direct source of funds and type of expenditures"
7896,"Cattle statistics, supply and disposition of cattle"
8427,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
7992,"Child tax benefits for adults with disabilities, by disability type and severity"
185,The “Annual Unit Runoff (dam3/km2) for a 70% Probability of Exceedence” dataset is a line data set that covers the extent of Canada. It shows the 70% Probability of exceedence annual unit runoff.
5360,Architectural and Landscape architectural services
5941,"Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation, housing starts, all areas, Canada and provinces, seasonally adjusted at annual rates"
9960,"Survey of Employment, Payrolls and Hours (SEPH), fixed weighted index of average hourly earnings for all employees, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
1733,"A relational dataset that includes all of the biological data of marine mammals in the Newfoundland and Labrador region. It includes diet, population, morphometric, male and female reproductive, and prey items data for seals and cetaceans. Purpose: Research/stock assessment/ecosystem studies."
4835,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
341,"Database of nitrogen fertilization trials on the L'Acadie experimental farm. This database contains hand harvested corn, wheat, canola, broccoli yield, nitrogen fertilization rates, dates of treatment application, dates of sowing, sampling, measurements, harvesting, quality parameters of the harvest, soil types, soil physico-chemical parameters, weather information (min-max temperature, rainfall), leaf area index measurents, destructive biomass (fresh, dry) measurements, chlorophyll assessment from chlorophyllmeter device, reflectance from drone or satellite imagery, vegetation index, nitrogen fertilization rates, results of physico-chemical analyses performed on soils or plant tissues."
9494,"Marriages, by marital status and age of groom, and by marital status and age of bride, opposite-sex marriage, Canada"
3703,"At the end of each fiscal year, the Receiver General of Canada publishes financial information in the Public Accounts. This dataset, based on Section 3 of Volume 1, presents (in millions of dollars) a two year comparative analysis of revenues, expenses and the accumulated deficit. It includes data on the various types of revenues taken from tables 3.1 through to 3.5 and data on public debt charges taken from Table 3.8. This non-official record of information comes from the Public Accounts of Canada. You can find the official version of record for the most recent fiscal year on the Receiver General website and that of Library and Archives for historical years."
8493,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
863,Goods and Services Tax (GST) and Harmonized Sales Tax (HST) Incremental Federal Rebate for Municipalities Report.
435,"List of all error codes for ACROSS including electronic release, Advance Commercial Information (marine, air and rail) and Customs Self Assessment program ."
6857,"Real estate rental and leasing and property management, summary statistics"
8092,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
4541,"Farm supply and disposition of grains as of March 31, July 31, August 31 (soybeans only) and December 31"
4019,"Canadian passenger bus and urban transit industries, operating revenue, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
2671,"The statistics presented in these documents reflect operations under the Investment Canada Act, specifically the number and value of notifications and reviewed applications.  "
1638,Tag and recapture information on cod marked with unique numbered plastic tags. Purpose: Cod stock assessment and research.
3048,"This group of maps, which includes the CanMatrix and CanTopo collections, is now a legacy product that is no longer maintained. Natural Resources Canada's (NRCan) topographic raster maps provide a representation of the topographic phenomena of the Canadian landmass. Several editions of paper maps have been produced over time in order to offer improved products compared to their predecessors in terms of quality and the most up to date information possible. The georeferenced maps can be used in a Geographic Information System (GIS). In all cases, they accurately represent the topographical data available for the date indicated (validity date). The combination of CanMatrix and CanTopo data provides complete national coverage. • CanMatrix - Print Ready: Raster maps produced by scanning topographic maps at scales from 1:25 000 to 1:1 000 000. This product is not georeferenced. Validity dates: 1944 to 2005 (1980 on average). Available formats: PDF and TIFF • CanMatrix - Georeferenced: Raster maps produced by scanning topographic maps at scales of 1:50 000 and 1:250 000. These maps are georeferenced according to the 1983 North American Reference System (NAD 83).
 Validity dates: 1944 to 2005 (1980 on average). Available format: GeoTIFF • CanTopo: Digital raster maps produced mainly from the GeoBase initiative, NRCan digital topographic data, and other sources. Approximately 2,234 datasets (maps) at scale of 1:50 000, primarily covering northern Canada, are available. CanTopo datasets in GeoPDF and GeoTIFF format are georeferenced according to the 1983 North American Reference System (NAD 83). Validity dates: 1946 to 2012 (2007 on average). Available formats: PDF, GeoPDF, TIFF and GeoTIFF"
10097,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
6616,"Registered pension plans (RPPs), members and market value of assets, by size of plan, sector, type of plan and contributory status"
2146,"In support of the Chemicals Management Plan, a wastewater monitoring program was initiated in 2009 to generate data on priorities substances that may be released to the environment.  On December 8, 2006, the Government of Canada unveiled the Chemicals Management Plan (CMP) which takes action regarding chemicals that are harmful to human health or the environment.  One element of the CMP is Monitoring and Surveillance, which generates data on the presence and levels of chemical substances in environmental matrices.  These data are used to make risk assessment and risk management decisions regarding the best approach to protect Canadians and their environment from risks these substances might pose.  

The wastewater sector has been identified as a possible release point to the environment for certain CMP substances.  The purpose of the wastewater monitoring program is to gather information from representative municipal wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) across Canada to determine the levels of selected chemical substances (such as Bisphenol A, pharmaceuticals and personal care products, flame retardants, heavy metals, etc) entering WWTPs, the fate of these substances through various typical wastewater and sludge treatment processes (primary treatment, activated sludge treatment, lagoon treatment, etc.) at warm and cold process temperatures, and levels of these substances being discharged in WWTP effluents and solids residuals. The participation of various WWTPs in this program is done on a voluntary and anonymous basis, and sampling can only commence once a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) has been signed by the Municipality and Environment and Climate Change Canada.  The results from this monitoring project will be used to improve our understanding and prediction of the fate of chemical substances during wastewater treatment and to determine if control measures are needed to prevent these substances from entering the municipal wastewater system."
1624,Capelin larval information from plankton tows. Purpose: Capelin research - early life history.
3301,A collection of historic photographs taken at the National Research Council dating back to 1916.
10557,"The Federal Contaminated Sites Inventory includes information on all known federal contaminated sites under the custodianship of departments, agencies and consolidated Crown corporations as well as those that are being or have been investigated to determine whether they have contamination arising from past use that could pose a risk to human health or the environment. The inventory also includes non-federal contaminated sites for which the Government of Canada has accepted some or all financial responsibility. It does not include sites where contamination has been caused by, and which are under the control of, enterprise Crown corporations, private individuals, firms or other levels of government."
3844,The purpose of the Outstanding Accounts Receivable (OAR) dataset is to monitor outstanding accounts receivable and the aging of each account (0-30 days; 31-60 days; 61-90 days; 90-365 days; more than 365 days).
376,"The National Ecological Framework for Canada's ""Surficial Geology by Ecozone” dataset contains tables that provide surficial geology information with the ecozone framework polygons. It provides codes that characterize surficial geology (unconsolidated geologic materials) and their English and French-language descriptions as well as information about the area and percentage of the polygon that the material occupies."
10237,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
356,"This dataset includes hourly data weather data for the La Salle River Watershed Near Elie, Manitoba, Canada (Water Survey of Canada Hydrometric Station 05OG008) created for hydrological modelling as part of Agriculture and Agri-food Canada’s Red-Assiniboine Project. The dataset includes parameters typically required to run hydrological models at an hourly time step including precipitation, temperature, wind speed, solar radiation, and relative humidity. A variety of methods were used to derive the best estimated hourly value from multiple nearby weather stations. These methods include gap-filling (e.g. linear regression) and disaggregation (e.g. Bartlett-Lewis model) techniques, as outlined in Cordeiro et. al. Long-term weather, hydrometric, and water chemistry datasets in high-temporal resolution at the La Salle River watershed in Manitoba, Canada. Earth System Science Data Journal. Not submitted."
9901,"Average weekly earnings, (SEPH), by Standard Industrial Classification, 1960 (SIC)"
6474,"Domestic and international itinerant movements, by type of operation, airports with NAV CANADA towers"
5141,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
6324,"Survey of innovation and business strategy, distinct product lines offered, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and enterprise size, all surveyed industries"
4065,"Number of shelters operating and responding to the transition home survey, by area of service"
2054,"The Canadian OzoneSonde Network measures vertical profiles of ozone from ground level up to 36 km altitude across Canada. The objectives of the network are to provide long-term stratospheric and tropospheric ozone data for periodic assessment of the state of the ozone layer, to validate satellite ozone data and air-quality model output, and to provide data for chemical data assimilation and for studying current and emerging issues such as climate change."
9029,"Domestic and international cargo, tonnage loaded and unloaded by water transport, by province and territory"
5449,"Employment, by enterprise size"
10700,"Facilities meeting the requirements to requalify cylinders and tubes set out in clause 24 of CSA B339 are given a Certificate of Registration. Upon registration, an identifying mark is issued to each requalifier. This mark must be stamped or affixed, depending on the container specification, on the cylinder or tube each time it is requalified.  A Certificate of Registration is valid for a period of five years"
4947,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
2733,"The CWWF will primarily focus investments on meeting immediate priorities for clean water and wastewater to support a cleaner and healthier environment for communities. These include: 
•the rehabilitation and optimization of water, storm water, and wastewater related infrastructure; 
•improvement of asset management approaches including studies and pilot projects; 
•planning for future upgrades to wastewater treatment and collection infrastructure to meet  applicable regulatory requirements; and 
•new construction projects, including the construction of naturalized systems for management and treatment of wastewater and storm water may also be considered if they can be completed within the program timeframe. "
2639,With Financial Performance Data you can view financial data based on industry averages.
7993,"Residential care facilities, by ownership, principal characteristic of predominant group of residents and size of facility, Canada, provinces and territories"
5759,"Private non-profit organizations' in-house research and development expenditures, by nature of research and development"
8447,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
987,An annual publication released on CSA website with the aggregate results of the annual data collection sent out to all Canadian organizations (academic and businesses) involved in the space sector.  
8850,"Employment, by enterprise size, by province and territory"
10630,This bank contains information about planned inspections for businesses for 5 years. It also includes information on risk indicators business
2570,"This dataset provides the results obtained by Health Canada’s Radiological Monitoring Network (CRMN) for tritium content in atmospheric water vapor sampled from monitoring stations in Ontario, Quebec and New Brunswick. More information about the CRMN network can be found here: http://www.hc-sc.gc.ca/ewh-semt/contaminants/radiation/crmn-rcsr/index-eng.php The results provided are for tritium activity concentration, expressed in units of becquerels per cubic meter (Bq/m3). Atmospheric water is sampled monthly for determination of tritium content. The majority of such monitoring activity occurs in close proximity to nuclear power plants. Until 1996, Health Canada monitored the areas near Darlington, Bruce and Pickering in Ontario, Gentilly in Quebec, and Point Lepreau in New Brunswick. In 1996, Health Canada’s monitoring of the Ontario stations was terminated to avoid redundancy, since a similar initiative was underway through the Ontario Ministry of Labour. Currently, the CRMN monitors six sites in the vicinity of Point Lepreau, four sites in the vicinity of Gentilly, and a single site in the Greater Toronto Area. The average tritium concentration for the CRMN stations is 0.22 Bq/m3 for the time period from 2004 to 2013. This is consistent with results reported for other monitoring stations in close proximity to Canadian nuclear power stations, and the levels are considered to be safe from a health perspective. Note that the tritium values are measured using liquid scintillator measurements. This requires removing the background contribution from the measurement. The uncertainty associated with each measurement, can lead to reported values of less than zero."
825,"Statistics tracking the representation of women, aboriginal peoples, persons with disabilities, and members of visible minorities in the CSNC"
8645,"The Federal Electoral District Boundary Files portray the federal electoral district boundaries for which census data are disseminated. They are available for download in two types: cartographic and digital. Cartographic boundary files depict the geographic areas using only the shorelines of the major land mass of Canada and its coastal islands. Digital boundary files depict the full extent of the geographic areas, including the coastal water area. The files provide a framework for mapping and spatial analysis using commercially available geographic information systems (GIS) or other mapping software."
5890,"Income of immigrants, by sex, landing age group, immigrant admission category, years since landing and landing year, for Manitoba, 2013 constant dollars"
4077,Gross national income and gross domestic income
4801,"Labour Force Survey estimates (LFS), employees by union status, sex, age group and education level, Canada"
1917,Phytoplankton data collected in eastern Canada (but mostly in the Estuary and Gulf of St. Lawrence) since 1979. Data include species identification and their abundance.
10669,"Lease administration system for the Pickering Lands Site.  Contains tenancy data, leases and live, real time, real property data.  Programmed and housed  by PWGSC."
4752,Provincial financial summary of performing arts
3350,"The Conditional Release Appeal Decisions dataset provides information on the number and results of decisions rendered by the PBC Appeal Division during a given period. Decisions are sorted according to location and final decision. Items found in this dataset include, among others, jurisdiction, decision purpose, sentence type, review type, race, gender and offence type."
8286,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
7296,"Canadian passenger bus and urban transit industries, revenue and expenses, by selected provinces and regions"
5032,"Survey of innovation, logging and manufacturing industries, percentage of plants with any new or significantly improved products sold to natural resource industries"
1714,"Catch rates and lengths of larval fish (primarily capelin) taken from a gridwork of stations in Trinity Bay, Newfoundland. Frequency of sampling is monthly, from August to October. Purpose: Provide index of capelin recruitment."
2076,"The datafile contains concentrations of 30 trace metals in freshwater fish collected from water bodies accross Canada. These data were produced by Environment Canada's National Fish Contaminants Monitoring and Surveillance Program (FCMSP) to support priorities of the Great Lakes Water Quality Agreement between Canada and the USA, Canada's Chemicals Management Plan (CMP), and Clean Air Regulatory Agenda (CARA).  All concentrations reported were measured in whole body homogenates of fish."
9142,"Financial market statistics, as at Wednesday, Bank of Canada"
2442,"The main objective of this study was to test communications materials developed by HRSDC. More specifically, three different creative concepts were tested with four key audiences:
•General population – non-volunteers;
•General population – volunteers;
•Not-for-profit and social organizations; and
•Small and medium-sized businesses.
The following elements were assessed for each concept:
•The name of the award program;
•The visual element; and
•The tagline.
Common elements – such as the sponsorship of the program, award categories and the contact information – were assessed once."
9924,"Statement of income and capital expenditures for companies having $10 million or more of total assets, by industry based on the Standard Industrial Classification, 1960 (SIC)"
867,"The Goods and Services Tax (GST) and Harmonized Sales Tax (HST) Incremental Federal Rebate for Municipalities Report provides the GST/HST incremental rebate amount paid to incorporated, determined, and designated municipalities, as defined in the Excise Tax Act, as follows: - incorporated municipal bodies, such as cities, towns, villages, and metropolitan authorities; - entities determined by the Minister of National Revenue to be a municipality, such as transit commissions and public libraries; and - entities designated by the Minister of National Revenue, in relation to their delivery of municipal services, such as some non-profit social housing corporations or co-operatives. "
147,"The “Agri-Environmental Indicator (AEI) - Risk of Soil Erosion (SoilERI)” dataset provides the estimated rate of soil loss from the combined effects of wind, water and tillage for Soil Landscapes of Canada agricultural areas for census years from 1981 to 2011."
9022,"Provincial and territorial general governments, financial assets and liabilities"
7614,"Farm financial survey, Canadian and regional agricultural balance sheet (gross farm revenue equal to or greater than $25,000)"
3992,"Time spent providing care to a family member or friend with a long-term illness, disability or aging needs, by sex and main activity of caregiver"
2059,"This global dataset contains monthly, seasonal and annual statistics (mean and maximum) of significant wave height (Hs) that were produced using a statistical modelling approach and the 6-hourly sea level pressure (SLP) fields simulated by 20 global climate models participated in the Coupled Climate Model Comparison Phase 5 (CMIP5) project for the historical period (1950-2005) and for two different future emission scenarios (RCP4.5 and RCP8.5).

Reference
Wang et al. (2014) - Changes in global ocean wave heights as projected using multimodel CMIP5 simulations. Geophysical Research Letters, 41, 1026-1034, doi:10.1002/2013GL058650."
3962,"Survey of innovation, selected service industries, novelty of new or significantly improved processes"
10088,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
10740,"Records of travel costs and overtime resulting from Civil Aviation operations (oversight, certification, etc. )"
1955,Evaluation of the abundance and size of green sea urchins in the 9-1 zone conducted by divers in 2008 and 2010.
1116,"Percentage of resources providing internal services, by region, in bilingual offices."
9821,"Survey of household spending (SHS), household spending on health care, by province and territory"
2406,The research will be conducted in three phases beginning with a survey of private career colleges (Institutional Survey) to ascertain the number of institutions and students eligible to participate in the Career Colleges Student Survey. The in-school survey of students attending private career colleges will include follow-up to determine outcomes associated with participation in the private post-secondary educational system.
4000,"Consumer Price Index (CPI), seasonally adjusted, 1992 basket content"
8512,"Adoption of advanced green technologies, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and enterprise size"
7315,"Health behaviour in school-aged children 2002, student response to question: Where were you treated for the most serious injury?"
8946,Summary table. Find data on the number of students enrolled in Canadian colleges or universities by program. Both sexes. STC
7153,"Survey of innovation, logging and manufacturing industries, percentage of innovative plants, by the most valuable type of co-operation partner for innovation activities"
4073,"Census of Agriculture, poultry production in the year prior to the census"
5656,"Labour statistics by business sector industry and non-commercial activity, consistent with the System of National Accounts, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
8244,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
10794,Information on serious wrongdoings in the workplace at Veterans Affairs Canada.
7358,"Enterprises holding or using issued patents, by category of patent acquisition and selected industry group, December 2010"
1931,"Biological and physical data (temperature, salinity, biomass of phytoplankton species, ect.) susceptible to influence the efflorescence of the toxic algae Alexandrium tamarense collected in the St. Lawrence Estuary from 1998 to 2000."
9369,"Family characteristics, single-earner and dual-earner families, by number of children"
5684,"Family characteristics, economic dependency profile, by family type and source of income"
7651,"Percentage of total energy intake from protein, by dietary age-sex reference intake group, household population aged 4 and over, Canadian Community Health Survey (CCHS 2.2), Canada and provinces"
864,"The Goods and Services Tax (GST) and Harmonized Sales Tax (HST) Incremental Federal Rebate for Municipalities Report provides the GST/HST incremental rebate amount paid to incorporated, determined, and designated municipalities, as defined in the Excise Tax Act, as follows: - incorporated municipal bodies, such as cities, towns, villages, and metropolitan authorities; - entities determined by the Minister of National Revenue to be a municipality, such as transit commissions and public libraries; and - entities designated by the Minister of National Revenue, in relation to their delivery of municipal services, such as some non-profit social housing corporations or co-operatives. "
10083,"The Canadian International Merchandise Trade (CIMT) online database offers detailed trade data using the Harmonized System (HS) classification of goods (based on the 6-digit commodity level). In the CIMT, you can select your own variables (e.g., trading partner, province, state, year, month, or other frequency) to create a customized data report. 

In general, merchandise trade data are revised on an ongoing basis for each month of the current year.The previous year's customs data are revised with the release of the January and February reference months as well as on a quarterly basis. The previous two years of customs based data are revised annually and are released in February with the December reference month."
6493,"Manufacturing sales, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and province"
10753,Inspectors registered with Transport Canada to provide in-plant inspection at cylinder and tube manufacturing facilities in accordance with CSA B339.
6330,Production of industrial chemicals and synthetic resins
9391,"Survey of innovation and business strategy, outsourcing of business activities from Canada to another country in the last three years, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) and enterprise size, all surveyed industries"
5752,Consumption of solid wood waste and spent pulping liquor for energy production
6399,"Five-year survival estimates for prostate, gallbladder, ureter and chronic lymphocytic leukemia cancer cases, ICD-O-3 (October 2011 CCR file), by age group and sex, population aged 15 to 99, 3 years of cases, Canada (excluding Quebec)"
9534,"Income of immigrants, by sex, landing age group, immigrant admission category, years since landing and landing year, 2013 constant dollars"
6204,"Labour force survey estimates (LFS), employment by Aboriginal group, National Occupational Classification for Statistics (NOC-S) and age group, Canada, selected provinces and regions"
1715,Number of capelin larvae emerging into the ocean over the spawning period from various spawning capelin beaches. Purpose: Research on capelin early life history and stock assessment.
3410,"The Conditional Release Reviews dataset provides information on the number of reviews conducted by the PBC for a given period. A review contains one or more decisions conducted on the same day for the same offender. Reviews are sorted according to location and review type. Items found in this dataset include, among others, jurisdiction, sentence type, review type, race, gender and offence type."
3648,Public Safety public facing website containing all proactive disclosures related to travel and hospitality  disclosed to the public
8193,This table is part of a series of tables that present a portrait of Canada based on the various census topics. The tables range in complexity and levels of geography. Content varies from a simple overview of the country to complex cross-tabulations; the tables may also cover several censuses.
9607,"Repair and maintenance services, operating expenses, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
8143,"Traveller accommodation, operating expenses, by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)"
9163,"Domestic and international itinerant movements, by type of operation, airports with NAV CANADA flight service stations"
6295,"Personal expenditure on consumer goods and services, by type of expenditure, 1968 System of National Accounts (SNA)"
